content/terraform-enterprise/v202410-1/docs/enterprise/deploy/podman.mdx, before:

---
page_title: Deploy Terraform Enterprise to Podmon
description: >-
  Learn how to install Terraform Enterprise on Podman.
---

# Deploy Terraform Enterprise to Podman

This topic describes how to install and run Terraform Enterprise on Podman. These installation steps set up a rootful Podman installation with a non-root user so that the Podman service runs as root while processes within the Terraform Enterprise container run as non-root.

## Overview

Complete the following steps to install Terraform Enterprise:

1. Complete the prerequisites.
1. Set up installation folders and files.
1. Download and install image.
1. Apply the deployment configuration.

## Prerequisites

Complete the following tasks before attempting to install Terraform Enterprise.

### Prepare the deployment environment

Set up a host instance and provide a DNS hostname for Terraform Enterprise and the associated TLS certificate. Additionally, you must configure your network so that your host can receive and send traffic. Refer to [Prepare the host environment](/terraform/enterprise/deploy/prepare-host) for details about preparing the host environment.

### Deploy storage systems for `active` and `external` mode

If you intend to operate Terraform Enterprise in `active` or `external` mode, deploy the database and other storage devices so that Terraform can connect to them when the application starts. Refer to [Data storage settings overview](/terraform/enterprise/deploy/configuration/storage) for additional information.

### Create the deployment configuration

Create a deployment configuration file and specify settings for the operational mode, license, TLS certificates, and network configuration. Add any additional configurations necessary for your environment. Refer to [Configuration file overview](/terraform/enterprise/deploy/configuration/) for additional information.

## Set up installation folders and files

1. Connect to the host instance.
1. Create a dedicated directory for the Terraform Enterprise installation files
1. Navigate to the installation directory.
1. Create a `certs` directory.
1. Place your TLS certificate (`cert.pem`), TLS private key (`key.pem`), and CA certificates bundle (`bundle.pem`) inside inside the`certs` directory. If you do not have a CA certificates bundle, place your TLS certificate (`cert.pem`) inside `bundle.pem` instead.
1. Place your deployment configuration file into the Terraform Enterprise installation directory. Refer to [Example deployment configurations](#example-deployment-configurations) for pre-formatted configurations that you can copy and modify. Refer to the [configuration reference](/terraform/enterprise/deploy/reference/configuration) for information about all deployment configuration settings.

## Download and install image

  1. Log in to the Terraform Enterprise container image registry, using `terraform`
  as the username, and your Hashicorp Terraform Enterprise license as the password:

  ```shell-session
  # echo "<HASHICORP_LICENSE>" |  podman login --username terraform images.releases.hashicorp.com --password-stdin
  ```

  1. Pull the Terraform Enterprise image from the registry.

  ```shell-session
  # podman pull images.releases.hashicorp.com/hashicorp/terraform-enterprise:<vYYYYMM-#>
  ```

## Apply the deployment configuration

Refer to [Deployment configuration reference](/terraform/enterprise/deploy/reference/configuration) for a list of all the configuration options. 

  1. Create a Terraform Enterprise pod by running the following command:

  ```shell-session
  # podman play kube <path_to_YAML_file>
  ```

  1. In a separate terminal session, you can monitor the logs by running the following command:

  ```shell-session
  # podman logs -f <container_name>
  ```

  1. Monitor the health of the application until it starts reporting healthy with the following command:

  ```shell-session
  # podman exec <container_name> tfe-health-check-status
  ```

## Post installation tasks actions

Complete the following tasks after the initial installation.

### Review startup checks

When you start Terraform Enterprise, several startup checks also run to prevent errors related to invalid configurations or certificates, as well as other issues that could prevent the application from running successfully or safely. Refer to the [startup checks reference](/terraform/enterprise/deploy/reference/startup-checks) for additional information.

### Create the initial admin user

[Provision your first administrative user](/terraform/enterprise/deploy/initial-admin-user) and start using Terraform Enterprise.

### Service management

To learn more about managing the lifecycle of Podman pods, refer to [the Podman docs for more information about pods](https://podman.io/).
We have included possible options for managing a pod's lifecycle on a Red Hat Enterprise Linux (RHEL) host for convenience.

### Manage Podman service

Complete the following steps to create a `systemd` service that automatically starts your pod and its containers. We
recommend using [Quadlet](https://www.redhat.com/sysadmin/quadlet-podman), which is an opinionated tool for running Podman
containers, to deploy `systemd`. Quadlet generates a `systemd` service that manages the Terraform Enterprise pod and
all containers, including the internal infrastructure container.

  1. Ensure the Terraform Enterprise pod is not running.

  1. Navigate to `/etc/containers/systemd/`. Define the service files in this directory.

  1. Create a Quadlet unit file for the Terraform Enterprise pod and container at `/etc/containers/systemd/terraform-enterprise.kube`:
  ```ini
    [Install]
    WantedBy=default.target
    [Service]
    Restart=always
    [Kube]
    Yaml=tfe.yaml
  ```

  1. Copy your Kubernetes YAML file to `/etc/containers/systemd/tfe.yaml`:
  ```shell-session
  # cp <path_to_YAML_file> /etc/containers/systemd/tfe.yaml
  ```

  1. Reload the `systemd` daemon and enable the service:
  ```shell-session
  # systemctl daemon-reload
  # systemctl start terraform-enterprise.service
  ```

  1. Check the status of your service:
  ```shell-session
  # systemctl status terraform-enterprise.service

    ● terraform-enterprise.service
      Loaded: loaded (/etc/containers/systemd/terraform-enterprise.kube; generated)
      Active: active (running) since Sun 2024-02-25 21:15:55 UTC; 15min ago
    Main PID: 35893 (conmon)
        Tasks: 4 (limit: 404901)
      Memory: 5.2M
      CGroup: /system.slice/terraform-enterprise.service
              ├─35893 /usr/bin/conmon --api-version 1 -c 74f1271d9a481711950c62b509f126c3fdf8678a9d552c5ccc692eb6ed5cf4d1 -u 74f1271d9a481711950c62b509f126c3fdf8678a9d552c5ccc692eb6ed5cf4d1 ->
              ├─36028 /usr/sbin/dnsmasq -u root --conf-file=/run/containers/cni/dnsname/podman-default-kube-network/dnsmasq.conf
              ├─36030 /usr/bin/conmon --api-version 1 -c 973d3ff4f7ada5880a9947be4d90b3d556c7ce841037de34c7eaa07c044a3ec0 -u 973d3ff4f7ada5880a9947be4d90b3d556c7ce841037de34c7eaa07c044a3ec0 ->
              └─36083 /usr/bin/conmon --api-version 1 -c 435ea68e87dbef3c0965ffdfb9fe1fc36c5500a63eb00dc0fe2499aaa560a563 -u 435ea68e87dbef3c0965ffdfb9fe1fc36c5500a63eb00dc0fe2499aaa560a563 ->
  ```

## Example configurations

You can copy one of the following example configurations and modify the values to per your environment. Refer to [Configuration Reference](/terraform/enterprise/deploy/reference/configuration)
for a list of all configuration options.


### Example `disk` mode configuration

The following Kubernetes YAML deploys Terraform Enterprise in `disk` mode. In this mode, Terraform Enterprise runs as a pod composed of a Terraform Enterprise container.

```yaml
---
apiVersion: "v1"
kind: "Pod"
metadata:
  labels:
    app: "terraform-enterprise"
  name: "terraform-enterprise"
spec:
  restartPolicy: "Never"
  containers:
  - env:
    - name: "TFE_OPERATIONAL_MODE"
      value: "disk"
    - name: "TFE_LICENSE"
      value: "<HashiCorp license>"
    - name: "TFE_HOSTNAME"
      value: "<Hostname>"
    - name: "TFE_HTTP_PORT"
      value: "8080"
    - name: "TFE_HTTPS_PORT"
      value: "8443"
    - name: "TFE_TLS_CERT_FILE"
      value: "/etc/ssl/private/terraform-enterprise/cert.pem"
    - name: "TFE_TLS_KEY_FILE"
      value: "/etc/ssl/private/terraform-enterprise/key.pem"
    - name: "TFE_TLS_CA_BUNDLE_FILE"
      value: "/etc/ssl/private/terraform-enterprise/bundle.pem"
    - name: "TFE_DISK_CACHE_VOLUME_NAME"
      value: "terraform-enterprise_terraform-enterprise-cache"
    - name: "TFE_LICENSE_REPORTING_OPT_OUT"
      value: "true"
    - name: "TFE_ENCRYPTION_PASSWORD"
      value: '<Encryption password>'
    image: "images.releases.hashicorp.com/hashicorp/terraform-enterprise:<vYYYYMM-#>"
    name: "terraform-enterprise"
    ports:
    - containerPort: 8080
      hostPort: 80
    - containerPort: 8443
      hostPort: 443
    - containerPort: 9090
      hostPort: 9090
    securityContext:
      capabilities:
        add:
        - "CAP_IPC_LOCK"
      readOnlyRootFilesystem: true
    volumeMounts:
    - mountPath: "/etc/ssl/private/terraform-enterprise"
      name: "certs"
    - mountPath: "/var/log/terraform-enterprise"
      name: "log"
    - mountPath: "/run"
      name: "run"
    - mountPath: "/tmp"
      name: "tmp"
    - mountPath: "/var/lib/terraform-enterprise"
      name: "data"
    - mountPath: "/run/docker.sock"
      name: "docker-sock"
    - mountPath: "/var/cache/tfe-task-worker/terraform"
      name: "terraform-enterprise_terraform-enterprise-cache-pvc"
  volumes:
  - hostPath:
      path: "<path_to_certs_on_host>"
      type: "Directory"
    name: "certs"
  - emptyDir:
      medium: "Memory"
    name: "log"
  - emptyDir:
      medium: "Memory"
    name: "run"
  - emptyDir:
      medium: "Memory"
    name: "tmp"
  - hostPath:
      path: "<mounted_disk_path_on_host>"
      type: "Directory"
    name: "data"
  - hostPath:
      path: "/var/run/docker.sock"
      type: "File"
    name: "docker-sock"
  - name: "terraform-enterprise_terraform-enterprise-cache-pvc"
    persistentVolumeClaim:
      claimName: "terraform-enterprise_terraform-enterprise-cache"
```

### Example `external` mode configuration

The following Kubernetes YAML configuration deploys Terraform Enterprise in `external` mode. In this mode, Terraform Enterprise runs as a pod composed of a Terraform Enterprise container.

```yaml
---
apiVersion: "v1"
kind: "Pod"
metadata:
  labels:
    app: "terraform-enterprise"
  name: "terraform-enterprise"
spec:
  restartPolicy: "Never"
  containers:
  - env:
    - name: "TFE_LICENSE"
      value: "<HashiCorp license>"
    - name: "TFE_HOSTNAME"
      value: "<TFE hostname>"
    - name: "TFE_OPERATIONAL_MODE"
      value: "external"
    - name: "TFE_HTTP_PORT"
      value: "8080"
    - name: "TFE_HTTPS_PORT"
      value: "8443"
    - name: "TFE_ENCRYPTION_PASSWORD"
      value: '<Encryption password>'
    - name: "TFE_DISK_CACHE_VOLUME_NAME"
      value: "terraform-enterprise_terraform-enterprise-cache"
    - name: "TFE_TLS_CA_BUNDLE_FILE"
      value: "/etc/ssl/private/terraform-enterprise/bundle.pem"
    - name: "TFE_TLS_CERT_FILE"
      value: "/etc/ssl/private/terraform-enterprise/cert.pem"
    - name: "TFE_TLS_KEY_FILE"
      value: "/etc/ssl/private/terraform-enterprise/key.pem"
    - name: "TFE_HTTP_PORT"
      value: "8080"
    - name: "TFE_HTTPS_PORT"
      value: "8443"

    # Database settings. See the configuration reference for more settings.
    - name: "TFE_DATABASE_HOST"
      value: "<Database hostname and port e.g. postgres:5432>"
    - name: "TFE_DATABASE_NAME"
      value: "<Database name e.g. hashicorp>"
    - name: "TFE_DATABASE_PARAMETERS"
      value: "<Database parameters e.g. sslmode=disable>"
    - name: 'TFE_DATABASE_PASSWORD'
      value: "<Database password e.g. postgres>"
    - name: "TFE_DATABASE_USER"
      value: "<Database user e.g. postgres>"

    # Object storage settings. See the configuration reference for more settings.
    - name: "TFE_OBJECT_STORAGE_TYPE"
      value: "s3"
    - name: "TFE_OBJECT_STORAGE_S3_ACCESS_KEY_ID"
      value: "<AWS Access Key ID>"
    - name: "TFE_OBJECT_STORAGE_S3_SECRET_ACCESS_KEY"
      value: '<AWS Secret Access Key>'
    - name: "TFE_OBJECT_STORAGE_S3_BUCKET"
      value: "<Bucket name>"
    - name: "TFE_OBJECT_STORAGE_S3_REGION"
      value: "<AWS region>"

    image: "images.releases.hashicorp.com/hashicorp/terraform-enterprise:<vYYYYMM-#>"
    name: "terraform-enterprise"
    ports:
    - containerPort: 8080
      hostPort: 80
    - containerPort: 8443
      hostPort: 443
    - containerPort: 8443
      hostPort: 443
    securityContext:
      capabilities:
        add:
        - "CAP_IPC_LOCK"
      readOnlyRootFilesystem: true
    volumeMounts:
    - mountPath: "/etc/ssl/private/terraform-enterprise"
      name: "certs"
    - mountPath: "/var/log/terraform-enterprise"
      name: "log"
    - mountPath: "/run"
      name: "run"
    - mountPath: "/tmp"
      name: "tmp"
    - mountPath: "/run/docker.sock"
      name: "docker-sock"
    - mountPath: "/var/cache/tfe-task-worker/terraform"
      name: "terraform-enterprise_terraform-enterprise-cache-pvc"
  volumes:
  - hostPath:
      path: "<path_to_certs_on_host>"
      type: "Directory"
    name: "certs"
  - emptyDir:
      medium: "Memory"
    name: "log"
  - emptyDir:
      medium: "Memory"
    name: "run"
  - emptyDir:
      medium: "Memory"
    name: "tmp"
  - hostPath:
      path: "/var/run/docker.sock"
      type: "File"
    name: "docker-sock"
  - name: "terraform-enterprise_terraform-enterprise-cache-pvc"
    persistentVolumeClaim:
      claimName: "terraform-enterprise_terraform-enterprise-cache"
```

### Example `active-active` mode configuration

The following Kubernetes YAML configuration deploys Terraform Enterprise in `active-active` mode. In this mode,
each node runs a Podman pod composed of a Terraform Enterprise container.

```yaml
---
apiVersion: "v1"
kind: "Pod"
metadata:
  labels:
    app: "terraform-enterprise"
  name: "terraform-enterprise"
spec:
  containers:
  - env:
    - name: "TFE_LICENSE"
      value: "<HashiCorp license>"
    - name: "TFE_HOSTNAME"
      value: "<TFE hostname>"
    - name: "TFE_HTTP_PORT"
      value: "8080"
    - name: "TFE_HTTPS_PORT"
      value: "8443"
    - name: "TFE_OPERATIONAL_MODE"
      value: "active-active"
    - name: "TFE_ENCRYPTION_PASSWORD"
      value: '<Encryption password>'
    - name: "TFE_DISK_CACHE_VOLUME_NAME"
      value: "terraform-enterprise_terraform-enterprise-cache"
    - name: "TFE_TLS_CA_BUNDLE_FILE"
      value: "/etc/ssl/private/terraform-enterprise/bundle.pem"
    - name: "TFE_TLS_CERT_FILE"
      value: "/etc/ssl/private/terraform-enterprise/cert.pem"
    - name: "TFE_TLS_KEY_FILE"
      value: "/etc/ssl/private/terraform-enterprise/key.pem"

    # Database settings. See the configuration reference for more settings.
    - name: "TFE_DATABASE_HOST"
      value: "<Database hostname and port e.g. postgres:5432>"
    - name: "TFE_DATABASE_NAME"
      value: "<Database name e.g. hashicorp>"
    - name: "TFE_DATABASE_PARAMETERS"
      value: "<Database parameters e.g. sslmode=disable>"
    - name: "TFE_DATABASE_PASSWORD"
      value: '<Database password>'
    - name: "TFE_DATABASE_USER"
      value: "<Database user e.g. postgres>"

    # Object storage settings. See the configuration reference for more settings.
    - name: "TFE_OBJECT_STORAGE_TYPE"
      value: "s3"
    - name: "TFE_OBJECT_STORAGE_S3_ACCESS_KEY_ID"
      value: "<AWS Access Key ID>"
    - name: "TFE_OBJECT_STORAGE_S3_SECRET_ACCESS_KEY"
      value: '<AWS Secret Access Key>'
    - name: "TFE_OBJECT_STORAGE_S3_BUCKET"
      value: "<Bucket name>"
    - name: "TFE_OBJECT_STORAGE_S3_REGION"
      value: "<AWS region>"

     # Redis settings. See the configuration reference for more settings.
    - name: "TFE_REDIS_HOST"
      value: "<Redis hostname and port>"
    - name: "TFE_REDIS_PASSWORD"
      value: '<Redis password>'
    - name: "TFE_REDIS_USER"
      value: "<Redis username>"
    - name: "TFE_REDIS_USE_AUTH"
      value: "<To use customized credential to authenticate? e.g. false>"
    - name: "TFE_REDIS_USE_TLS"
      value: "<To use tls? e.g. false>"

      # Vault cluster settings.
      # If you are using the default internal vault, this should be the private routable IP address of the node itself.
    - name: "TFE_VAULT_CLUSTER_ADDRESS"
      value: "https://10.0.66.189:8201"

    image: "images.releases.hashicorp.com/hashicorp/terraform-enterprise:<vYYYYMM-#>"
    name: "terraform-enterprise"
    ports:
    - containerPort: 8080
      hostPort: 80
    - containerPort: 8443
      hostPort: 443
    - containerPort: 8201
      hostPort: 8201
    securityContext:
      capabilities:
        add:
        - "CAP_IPC_LOCK"
      readOnlyRootFilesystem: true
    volumeMounts:
    - mountPath: "/etc/ssl/private/terraform-enterprise"
      name: "certs"
    - mountPath: "/var/log/terraform-enterprise"
      name: "log"
    - mountPath: "/run"
      name: "run"
    - mountPath: "/tmp"
      name: "tmp"
    - mountPath: "/run/docker.sock"
      name: "docker-sock"
    - mountPath: "/var/cache/tfe-task-worker/terraform"
      name: "terraform-enterprise_terraform-enterprise-cache-pvc"
  restartPolicy: "Never"
  volumes:
  - hostPath:
      path: "<path_to_certs_on_host>"
      type: "Directory"
    name: "certs"
  - emptyDir:
      medium: "Memory"
    name: "log"
  - emptyDir:
      medium: "Memory"
    name: "run"
  - emptyDir:
      medium: "Memory"
    name: "tmp"
  - hostPath:
      path: "/var/run/docker.sock"
      type: "File"
    name: "docker-sock"
  - name: "terraform-enterprise_terraform-enterprise-cache-pvc"
    persistentVolumeClaim:
      claimName: "terraform-enterprise_terraform-enterprise-cache"
```

Commit message:

Guide users to the releases page and explicitly state that "latest" is not a valid tag in this case.

content/terraform-enterprise/v202410-1/docs/enterprise/deploy/podman.mdx, after:

---
page_title: Deploy Terraform Enterprise to Podmon
description: >-
  Learn how to install Terraform Enterprise on Podman.
---

# Deploy Terraform Enterprise to Podman

This topic describes how to install and run Terraform Enterprise on Podman. These installation steps set up a rootful Podman installation with a non-root user so that the Podman service runs as root while processes within the Terraform Enterprise container run as non-root.

## Overview

Complete the following steps to install Terraform Enterprise:

1. Complete the prerequisites.
1. Set up installation folders and files.
1. Download and install image.
1. Apply the deployment configuration.

## Prerequisites

Complete the following tasks before attempting to install Terraform Enterprise.

### Prepare the deployment environment

Set up a host instance and provide a DNS hostname for Terraform Enterprise and the associated TLS certificate. Additionally, you must configure your network so that your host can receive and send traffic. Refer to [Prepare the host environment](/terraform/enterprise/deploy/prepare-host) for details about preparing the host environment.

### Deploy storage systems for `active` and `external` mode

If you intend to operate Terraform Enterprise in `active` or `external` mode, deploy the database and other storage devices so that Terraform can connect to them when the application starts. Refer to [Data storage settings overview](/terraform/enterprise/deploy/configuration/storage) for additional information.

### Create the deployment configuration

Create a deployment configuration file and specify settings for the operational mode, license, TLS certificates, and network configuration. Add any additional configurations necessary for your environment. Refer to [Configuration file overview](/terraform/enterprise/deploy/configuration/) for additional information.

## Set up installation folders and files

1. Connect to the host instance.
1. Create a dedicated directory for the Terraform Enterprise installation files
1. Navigate to the installation directory.
1. Create a `certs` directory.
1. Place your TLS certificate (`cert.pem`), TLS private key (`key.pem`), and CA certificates bundle (`bundle.pem`) inside inside the`certs` directory. If you do not have a CA certificates bundle, place your TLS certificate (`cert.pem`) inside `bundle.pem` instead.
1. Place your deployment configuration file into the Terraform Enterprise installation directory. Refer to [Example deployment configurations](#example-deployment-configurations) for pre-formatted configurations that you can copy and modify. Refer to the [configuration reference](/terraform/enterprise/deploy/reference/configuration) for information about all deployment configuration settings.

## Download and install image

  1. Log in to the Terraform Enterprise container image registry, using `terraform`
  as the username, and your Hashicorp Terraform Enterprise license as the password:

  ```shell-session
  # echo "<HASHICORP_LICENSE>" |  podman login --username terraform images.releases.hashicorp.com --password-stdin
  ```

  1. Pull the Terraform Enterprise image from the registry.  Refer to [Terraform Enterprise Releases](https://developer.hashicorp.com/terraform/enterprise/releases) for a list of versions and replace `<vYYYYMM-#>` with the version you wish to install; `latest` is not a valid tag.  

  ```shell-session
  # podman pull images.releases.hashicorp.com/hashicorp/terraform-enterprise:<vYYYYMM-#>
  ```

## Apply the deployment configuration

Refer to [Deployment configuration reference](/terraform/enterprise/deploy/reference/configuration) for a list of all the configuration options. 

  1. Create a Terraform Enterprise pod by running the following command:

  ```shell-session
  # podman play kube <path_to_YAML_file>
  ```

  1. In a separate terminal session, you can monitor the logs by running the following command:

  ```shell-session
  # podman logs -f <container_name>
  ```

  1. Monitor the health of the application until it starts reporting healthy with the following command:

  ```shell-session
  # podman exec <container_name> tfe-health-check-status
  ```

## Post installation tasks actions

Complete the following tasks after the initial installation.

### Review startup checks

When you start Terraform Enterprise, several startup checks also run to prevent errors related to invalid configurations or certificates, as well as other issues that could prevent the application from running successfully or safely. Refer to the [startup checks reference](/terraform/enterprise/deploy/reference/startup-checks) for additional information.

### Create the initial admin user

[Provision your first administrative user](/terraform/enterprise/deploy/initial-admin-user) and start using Terraform Enterprise.

### Service management

To learn more about managing the lifecycle of Podman pods, refer to [the Podman docs for more information about pods](https://podman.io/).
We have included possible options for managing a pod's lifecycle on a Red Hat Enterprise Linux (RHEL) host for convenience.

### Manage Podman service

Complete the following steps to create a `systemd` service that automatically starts your pod and its containers. We
recommend using [Quadlet](https://www.redhat.com/sysadmin/quadlet-podman), which is an opinionated tool for running Podman
containers, to deploy `systemd`. Quadlet generates a `systemd` service that manages the Terraform Enterprise pod and
all containers, including the internal infrastructure container.

  1. Ensure the Terraform Enterprise pod is not running.

  1. Navigate to `/etc/containers/systemd/`. Define the service files in this directory.

  1. Create a Quadlet unit file for the Terraform Enterprise pod and container at `/etc/containers/systemd/terraform-enterprise.kube`:
  ```ini
    [Install]
    WantedBy=default.target
    [Service]
    Restart=always
    [Kube]
    Yaml=tfe.yaml
  ```

  1. Copy your Kubernetes YAML file to `/etc/containers/systemd/tfe.yaml`:
  ```shell-session
  # cp <path_to_YAML_file> /etc/containers/systemd/tfe.yaml
  ```

  1. Reload the `systemd` daemon and enable the service:
  ```shell-session
  # systemctl daemon-reload
  # systemctl start terraform-enterprise.service
  ```

  1. Check the status of your service:
  ```shell-session
  # systemctl status terraform-enterprise.service

    ● terraform-enterprise.service
      Loaded: loaded (/etc/containers/systemd/terraform-enterprise.kube; generated)
      Active: active (running) since Sun 2024-02-25 21:15:55 UTC; 15min ago
    Main PID: 35893 (conmon)
        Tasks: 4 (limit: 404901)
      Memory: 5.2M
      CGroup: /system.slice/terraform-enterprise.service
              ├─35893 /usr/bin/conmon --api-version 1 -c 74f1271d9a481711950c62b509f126c3fdf8678a9d552c5ccc692eb6ed5cf4d1 -u 74f1271d9a481711950c62b509f126c3fdf8678a9d552c5ccc692eb6ed5cf4d1 ->
              ├─36028 /usr/sbin/dnsmasq -u root --conf-file=/run/containers/cni/dnsname/podman-default-kube-network/dnsmasq.conf
              ├─36030 /usr/bin/conmon --api-version 1 -c 973d3ff4f7ada5880a9947be4d90b3d556c7ce841037de34c7eaa07c044a3ec0 -u 973d3ff4f7ada5880a9947be4d90b3d556c7ce841037de34c7eaa07c044a3ec0 ->
              └─36083 /usr/bin/conmon --api-version 1 -c 435ea68e87dbef3c0965ffdfb9fe1fc36c5500a63eb00dc0fe2499aaa560a563 -u 435ea68e87dbef3c0965ffdfb9fe1fc36c5500a63eb00dc0fe2499aaa560a563 ->
  ```

## Example configurations

You can copy one of the following example configurations and modify the values to per your environment. Refer to [Configuration Reference](/terraform/enterprise/deploy/reference/configuration)
for a list of all configuration options.


### Example `disk` mode configuration

The following Kubernetes YAML deploys Terraform Enterprise in `disk` mode. In this mode, Terraform Enterprise runs as a pod composed of a Terraform Enterprise container.

```yaml
---
apiVersion: "v1"
kind: "Pod"
metadata:
  labels:
    app: "terraform-enterprise"
  name: "terraform-enterprise"
spec:
  restartPolicy: "Never"
  containers:
  - env:
    - name: "TFE_OPERATIONAL_MODE"
      value: "disk"
    - name: "TFE_LICENSE"
      value: "<HashiCorp license>"
    - name: "TFE_HOSTNAME"
      value: "<Hostname>"
    - name: "TFE_HTTP_PORT"
      value: "8080"
    - name: "TFE_HTTPS_PORT"
      value: "8443"
    - name: "TFE_TLS_CERT_FILE"
      value: "/etc/ssl/private/terraform-enterprise/cert.pem"
    - name: "TFE_TLS_KEY_FILE"
      value: "/etc/ssl/private/terraform-enterprise/key.pem"
    - name: "TFE_TLS_CA_BUNDLE_FILE"
      value: "/etc/ssl/private/terraform-enterprise/bundle.pem"
    - name: "TFE_DISK_CACHE_VOLUME_NAME"
      value: "terraform-enterprise_terraform-enterprise-cache"
    - name: "TFE_LICENSE_REPORTING_OPT_OUT"
      value: "true"
    - name: "TFE_ENCRYPTION_PASSWORD"
      value: '<Encryption password>'
    image: "images.releases.hashicorp.com/hashicorp/terraform-enterprise:<vYYYYMM-#>"
    name: "terraform-enterprise"
    ports:
    - containerPort: 8080
      hostPort: 80
    - containerPort: 8443
      hostPort: 443
    - containerPort: 9090
      hostPort: 9090
    securityContext:
      capabilities:
        add:
        - "CAP_IPC_LOCK"
      readOnlyRootFilesystem: true
    volumeMounts:
    - mountPath: "/etc/ssl/private/terraform-enterprise"
      name: "certs"
    - mountPath: "/var/log/terraform-enterprise"
      name: "log"
    - mountPath: "/run"
      name: "run"
    - mountPath: "/tmp"
      name: "tmp"
    - mountPath: "/var/lib/terraform-enterprise"
      name: "data"
    - mountPath: "/run/docker.sock"
      name: "docker-sock"
    - mountPath: "/var/cache/tfe-task-worker/terraform"
      name: "terraform-enterprise_terraform-enterprise-cache-pvc"
  volumes:
  - hostPath:
      path: "<path_to_certs_on_host>"
      type: "Directory"
    name: "certs"
  - emptyDir:
      medium: "Memory"
    name: "log"
  - emptyDir:
      medium: "Memory"
    name: "run"
  - emptyDir:
      medium: "Memory"
    name: "tmp"
  - hostPath:
      path: "<mounted_disk_path_on_host>"
      type: "Directory"
    name: "data"
  - hostPath:
      path: "/var/run/docker.sock"
      type: "File"
    name: "docker-sock"
  - name: "terraform-enterprise_terraform-enterprise-cache-pvc"
    persistentVolumeClaim:
      claimName: "terraform-enterprise_terraform-enterprise-cache"
```

### Example `external` mode configuration

The following Kubernetes YAML configuration deploys Terraform Enterprise in `external` mode. In this mode, Terraform Enterprise runs as a pod composed of a Terraform Enterprise container.

```yaml
---
apiVersion: "v1"
kind: "Pod"
metadata:
  labels:
    app: "terraform-enterprise"
  name: "terraform-enterprise"
spec:
  restartPolicy: "Never"
  containers:
  - env:
    - name: "TFE_LICENSE"
      value: "<HashiCorp license>"
    - name: "TFE_HOSTNAME"
      value: "<TFE hostname>"
    - name: "TFE_OPERATIONAL_MODE"
      value: "external"
    - name: "TFE_HTTP_PORT"
      value: "8080"
    - name: "TFE_HTTPS_PORT"
      value: "8443"
    - name: "TFE_ENCRYPTION_PASSWORD"
      value: '<Encryption password>'
    - name: "TFE_DISK_CACHE_VOLUME_NAME"
      value: "terraform-enterprise_terraform-enterprise-cache"
    - name: "TFE_TLS_CA_BUNDLE_FILE"
      value: "/etc/ssl/private/terraform-enterprise/bundle.pem"
    - name: "TFE_TLS_CERT_FILE"
      value: "/etc/ssl/private/terraform-enterprise/cert.pem"
    - name: "TFE_TLS_KEY_FILE"
      value: "/etc/ssl/private/terraform-enterprise/key.pem"
    - name: "TFE_HTTP_PORT"
      value: "8080"
    - name: "TFE_HTTPS_PORT"
      value: "8443"

    # Database settings. See the configuration reference for more settings.
    - name: "TFE_DATABASE_HOST"
      value: "<Database hostname and port e.g. postgres:5432>"
    - name: "TFE_DATABASE_NAME"
      value: "<Database name e.g. hashicorp>"
    - name: "TFE_DATABASE_PARAMETERS"
      value: "<Database parameters e.g. sslmode=disable>"
    - name: 'TFE_DATABASE_PASSWORD'
      value: "<Database password e.g. postgres>"
    - name: "TFE_DATABASE_USER"
      value: "<Database user e.g. postgres>"

    # Object storage settings. See the configuration reference for more settings.
    - name: "TFE_OBJECT_STORAGE_TYPE"
      value: "s3"
    - name: "TFE_OBJECT_STORAGE_S3_ACCESS_KEY_ID"
      value: "<AWS Access Key ID>"
    - name: "TFE_OBJECT_STORAGE_S3_SECRET_ACCESS_KEY"
      value: '<AWS Secret Access Key>'
    - name: "TFE_OBJECT_STORAGE_S3_BUCKET"
      value: "<Bucket name>"
    - name: "TFE_OBJECT_STORAGE_S3_REGION"
      value: "<AWS region>"

    image: "images.releases.hashicorp.com/hashicorp/terraform-enterprise:<vYYYYMM-#>"
    name: "terraform-enterprise"
    ports:
    - containerPort: 8080
      hostPort: 80
    - containerPort: 8443
      hostPort: 443
    - containerPort: 8443
      hostPort: 443
    securityContext:
      capabilities:
        add:
        - "CAP_IPC_LOCK"
      readOnlyRootFilesystem: true
    volumeMounts:
    - mountPath: "/etc/ssl/private/terraform-enterprise"
      name: "certs"
    - mountPath: "/var/log/terraform-enterprise"
      name: "log"
    - mountPath: "/run"
      name: "run"
    - mountPath: "/tmp"
      name: "tmp"
    - mountPath: "/run/docker.sock"
      name: "docker-sock"
    - mountPath: "/var/cache/tfe-task-worker/terraform"
      name: "terraform-enterprise_terraform-enterprise-cache-pvc"
  volumes:
  - hostPath:
      path: "<path_to_certs_on_host>"
      type: "Directory"
    name: "certs"
  - emptyDir:
      medium: "Memory"
    name: "log"
  - emptyDir:
      medium: "Memory"
    name: "run"
  - emptyDir:
      medium: "Memory"
    name: "tmp"
  - hostPath:
      path: "/var/run/docker.sock"
      type: "File"
    name: "docker-sock"
  - name: "terraform-enterprise_terraform-enterprise-cache-pvc"
    persistentVolumeClaim:
      claimName: "terraform-enterprise_terraform-enterprise-cache"
```

### Example `active-active` mode configuration

The following Kubernetes YAML configuration deploys Terraform Enterprise in `active-active` mode. In this mode,
each node runs a Podman pod composed of a Terraform Enterprise container.

```yaml
---
apiVersion: "v1"
kind: "Pod"
metadata:
  labels:
    app: "terraform-enterprise"
  name: "terraform-enterprise"
spec:
  containers:
  - env:
    - name: "TFE_LICENSE"
      value: "<HashiCorp license>"
    - name: "TFE_HOSTNAME"
      value: "<TFE hostname>"
    - name: "TFE_HTTP_PORT"
      value: "8080"
    - name: "TFE_HTTPS_PORT"
      value: "8443"
    - name: "TFE_OPERATIONAL_MODE"
      value: "active-active"
    - name: "TFE_ENCRYPTION_PASSWORD"
      value: '<Encryption password>'
    - name: "TFE_DISK_CACHE_VOLUME_NAME"
      value: "terraform-enterprise_terraform-enterprise-cache"
    - name: "TFE_TLS_CA_BUNDLE_FILE"
      value: "/etc/ssl/private/terraform-enterprise/bundle.pem"
    - name: "TFE_TLS_CERT_FILE"
      value: "/etc/ssl/private/terraform-enterprise/cert.pem"
    - name: "TFE_TLS_KEY_FILE"
      value: "/etc/ssl/private/terraform-enterprise/key.pem"

    # Database settings. See the configuration reference for more settings.
    - name: "TFE_DATABASE_HOST"
      value: "<Database hostname and port e.g. postgres:5432>"
    - name: "TFE_DATABASE_NAME"
      value: "<Database name e.g. hashicorp>"
    - name: "TFE_DATABASE_PARAMETERS"
      value: "<Database parameters e.g. sslmode=disable>"
    - name: "TFE_DATABASE_PASSWORD"
      value: '<Database password>'
    - name: "TFE_DATABASE_USER"
      value: "<Database user e.g. postgres>"

    # Object storage settings. See the configuration reference for more settings.
    - name: "TFE_OBJECT_STORAGE_TYPE"
      value: "s3"
    - name: "TFE_OBJECT_STORAGE_S3_ACCESS_KEY_ID"
      value: "<AWS Access Key ID>"
    - name: "TFE_OBJECT_STORAGE_S3_SECRET_ACCESS_KEY"
      value: '<AWS Secret Access Key>'
    - name: "TFE_OBJECT_STORAGE_S3_BUCKET"
      value: "<Bucket name>"
    - name: "TFE_OBJECT_STORAGE_S3_REGION"
      value: "<AWS region>"

     # Redis settings. See the configuration reference for more settings.
    - name: "TFE_REDIS_HOST"
      value: "<Redis hostname and port>"
    - name: "TFE_REDIS_PASSWORD"
      value: '<Redis password>'
    - name: "TFE_REDIS_USER"
      value: "<Redis username>"
    - name: "TFE_REDIS_USE_AUTH"
      value: "<To use customized credential to authenticate? e.g. false>"
    - name: "TFE_REDIS_USE_TLS"
      value: "<To use tls? e.g. false>"

      # Vault cluster settings.
      # If you are using the default internal vault, this should be the private routable IP address of the node itself.
    - name: "TFE_VAULT_CLUSTER_ADDRESS"
      value: "https://10.0.66.189:8201"

    image: "images.releases.hashicorp.com/hashicorp/terraform-enterprise:<vYYYYMM-#>"
    name: "terraform-enterprise"
    ports:
    - containerPort: 8080
      hostPort: 80
    - containerPort: 8443
      hostPort: 443
    - containerPort: 8201
      hostPort: 8201
    securityContext:
      capabilities:
        add:
        - "CAP_IPC_LOCK"
      readOnlyRootFilesystem: true
    volumeMounts:
    - mountPath: "/etc/ssl/private/terraform-enterprise"
      name: "certs"
    - mountPath: "/var/log/terraform-enterprise"
      name: "log"
    - mountPath: "/run"
      name: "run"
    - mountPath: "/tmp"
      name: "tmp"
    - mountPath: "/run/docker.sock"
      name: "docker-sock"
    - mountPath: "/var/cache/tfe-task-worker/terraform"
      name: "terraform-enterprise_terraform-enterprise-cache-pvc"
  restartPolicy: "Never"
  volumes:
  - hostPath:
      path: "<path_to_certs_on_host>"
      type: "Directory"
    name: "certs"
  - emptyDir:
      medium: "Memory"
    name: "log"
  - emptyDir:
      medium: "Memory"
    name: "run"
  - emptyDir:
      medium: "Memory"
    name: "tmp"
  - hostPath:
      path: "/var/run/docker.sock"
      type: "File"
    name: "docker-sock"
  - name: "terraform-enterprise_terraform-enterprise-cache-pvc"
    persistentVolumeClaim:
      claimName: "terraform-enterprise_terraform-enterprise-cache"
```
