content/terraform-enterprise/1.1.x/docs/enterprise/deploy/configuration/storage/connect-database/postgres.mdx, before:

---
page_title: Configure external PostgreSQL connection
description:
  Learn how to configure Terraform Enterprise to connect to an external
  PostgreSQL database so that your Terraform Enterprise instances can store
  stateful application data.
---

# Connect to an external PostgreSQL database

This topic describes how to configure Terraform Enterprise to connect to an
external PostgreSQL database. You only need to complete this task under the following conditions:

- You want to operate Terraform Enterprise in `active-active` or `external` mode, which instructs
Terraform Enterprise to store and retrieve data in an externally-managed database. Refer to
[Configure operational mode](/terraform/enterprise/deploy/configuration/storage/configure-mode)
for additional information.
- You want to connect to a single PostgreSQL node. To connect Terraform Enterprise to an HA PostgreSQL database cluster, refer to [Connect to a highly-available PostgreSQL cluster](/terraform/enterprise/deploy/configuration/storage/connect-database/postgres-cluster). 

## Overview

Complete the following steps to connect Terraform Enterprise to a single PostgreSQL node: 

1. Create extensions for the database schemas.
1. Specify the connection settings in your deployment configuration. If your
   server requires additional connection parameters, you must also specify them
   in the configuration.

## Requirements

Before proceeding, verify that you meet the following requirements.

### Server version

You can connect to the following versions of many PostgreSQL server distributions:

- 13.x
- 14.4 and newer 
- 15.x 
- 16.x
- 17.x 

### Server distribution

You can connect to several PostgreSQL database distributions. We have tested and verified Terraform Enterprise with the following services: 

- Amazon RDS for PostgreSQL
- Amazon Aurora PostgreSQL
- EnterpriseDB Postgres Advanced Server 16 and 17

### User

Create a PostgreSQL user with the following permissions on the database:

- Permissions to create, modify, and read all tables and indices on all schemas
  within the database. Database owners commonly have these permissions.
- Permissions to create extensions. If you are unable to create a user with the
  `CREATE EXTENSION` privilege, refer to [Create extensions](#create-extensions)
  for instructions on creating the necessary extensions.
- The `rails`, `vault`, `registry`, `task_worker`, and `terraform_enterprise` PostgreSQL schemas are required. We recommend allowing the PostgreSQL user to create schemas so that Terraform Enterprise can create them automatically. If the PostgreSQL user does not have permissions to create schemas, they must be created prior to installation.

  <Note>
  Note that if you are changing the database user, ensure the new user is the owner of all
  enum types in the database to avoid failures for any potential migrations that
  attempt to `ALTER TYPE`.
  </Note>

### Azure Managed Identity requirements

Use Azure Managed Identity to [authenticate](#azure-msi-authentication) with Azure Database for PostgreSQL. Here are a few requirements:

- The managed identity must be able to [access the database](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/postgresql/flexible-server/how-to-connect-with-managed-identity) from the virtual machine.
- The managed identity must have the [required permissions](#user) on the database.

<Note>
  Terraform Enterprise does not support workload identities for authentication.
</Note>

## Create extensions

Create extensions for the `rails`, `vault`, `registry`, and `task_worker`
PostgreSQL schemas. The database server automatically creates these schemas if
they do not already exist.

Run the following commands on the PostgreSQL server to create the extensions:

```shell-session
CREATE EXTENSION IF NOT EXISTS "hstore" WITH SCHEMA "rails";
CREATE EXTENSION IF NOT EXISTS "uuid-ossp" WITH SCHEMA "rails";
CREATE EXTENSION IF NOT EXISTS "citext" WITH SCHEMA "registry";
```

## Specify PostgreSQL connection settings

Add the following settings to your Terraform Enterprise configuration:

- Set the `TFE_DATABASE_HOST` variable to the location of your PostgreSQL
  server. Format the location as `HOST[:PORT]`, for example `db.example.com` or
  `db.example.com:5432`. Multi host connection strings are not supported.
- Set the `TFE_DATABASE_NAME` variable to the name of the database you want to
  store the data in.
- Set the `TFE_DATABASE_USER` variable to the user name you want to use to
  access the database.
- Set the `TFE_DATABASE_PASSWORD` variable to the password for the user.

Refer to
[Database settings](/terraform/enterprise/deploy/reference/configuration#database-settings)
in the configuration reference for additional information.

### Additional connection parameters

Add the `TFE_DATABASE_PARAMETERS` variable to your configuration and specify any
additional connection parameters necessary to connect to the server.

#### `sslmode`

When providing extra keyword parameters for the database connection, the
`sslmode` parameter only allows the following values:

- `require`
- `verify-full`
- `verify-ca`
- `disable`

When operating Terraform Enterprise in `external` mode, the `sslmode` parameter
is set to `require` by default. When operating Terraform Enterprise in `disk`
mode, the `sslmode` parameter is set to `disable` by default.

Terraform Enterprise provides a certificates file at
`/etc/ssl/private/terraform-enterprise/bundle.pem`, which is required by the
`verify-full` and `verify-ca` modes.

Refer to the
[PostgreSQL library documentation](https://www.postgresql.org/docs/12/libpq-ssl.html)
for additional information about using `sslmode`.

## Configure authentication settings

You can use the following authentication methods so that Terraform Enterprise can communicate with the database. 

### Username and password authentication

You can configure Terraform Enterprise to use the database's user and password to authenticate with the server.
Set the `TFE_DATABASE_USER` and `TFE_DATABASE_PASSWORD` variable for username and password based authentication.

### Client certificate authentication

You can configure Terraform Enterprise to use PostgreSQL client certificates to authenticate with the server. When providing client certificates, the database password is not required and the `sslmode` parameter is set to `verify-full`. 
Terraform Enterprise requires PostgreSQL server certificate to use Subject Alternative Names (SANs) rather than relying solely on the legacy Common Name field.

Configure the following settings to use PostgreSQL client certificates: 

- Set the `TFE_DATABASE_USE_MTLS` variable to `true`.
- Specify the path to the CA certificate file in the `TFE_DATABASE_CA_CERT_FILE` variable.
- Specify the path to the client certificate file in the `TFE_DATABASE_CLIENT_CERT_FILE` variable.
- Specify the path to the client key in the `TFE_DATABASE_CLIENT_KEY_FILE` variable.

### Azure MSI authentication

You can use both system-assigned and user-assigned managed identities to authenticate to Azure Database for PostgreSQL flexible server.

Refer to the [Azure documentation](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/postgresql/flexible-server/how-to-connect-with-managed-identity) for more information.
When using Azure MSI authentication, the database password is not required.

Ensure that you meet the [requirements](#azure-managed-identity-requirements).

Configure the following settings to use Azure MSI:

- Set the `TFE_DATABASE_PASSWORDLESS_AZURE_USE_MSI` variable to `true`.
- Set the `TFE_DATABASE_PASSWORDLESS_AZURE_CLIENT_ID` to the client ID of the user-assigned managed identity. Leave it blank to use the system-assigned managed identity.
- Set the `TFE_DATABASE_USER` to the managed identity name.

Ensure that the managed identity has the [required permissions](#user) on the database. 
If you migrate from password-based authentication to MSI, the previous user may own the database and schemas. 
Reassign ownership or grant the necessary permissions to the managed identity user.

Commit message:

support for database passwordless auth for GCP

content/terraform-enterprise/1.1.x/docs/enterprise/deploy/configuration/storage/connect-database/postgres.mdx, after:

---
page_title: Configure external PostgreSQL connection
description:
  Learn how to configure Terraform Enterprise to connect to an external
  PostgreSQL database so that your Terraform Enterprise instances can store
  stateful application data.
---

# Connect to an external PostgreSQL database

This topic describes how to configure Terraform Enterprise to connect to an
external PostgreSQL database. You only need to complete this task under the following conditions:

- You want to operate Terraform Enterprise in `active-active` or `external` mode, which instructs
Terraform Enterprise to store and retrieve data in an externally-managed database. Refer to
[Configure operational mode](/terraform/enterprise/deploy/configuration/storage/configure-mode)
for additional information.
- You want to connect to a single PostgreSQL node. To connect Terraform Enterprise to an HA PostgreSQL database cluster, refer to [Connect to a highly-available PostgreSQL cluster](/terraform/enterprise/deploy/configuration/storage/connect-database/postgres-cluster). 

## Overview

Complete the following steps to connect Terraform Enterprise to a single PostgreSQL node: 

1. Create extensions for the database schemas.
1. Specify the connection settings in your deployment configuration. If your
   server requires additional connection parameters, you must also specify them
   in the configuration.

## Requirements

Before proceeding, verify that you meet the following requirements.

### Server version

You can connect to the following versions of many PostgreSQL server distributions:

- 13.x
- 14.4 and newer 
- 15.x 
- 16.x
- 17.x 

### Server distribution

You can connect to several PostgreSQL database distributions. We have tested and verified Terraform Enterprise with the following services: 

- Amazon RDS for PostgreSQL
- Amazon Aurora PostgreSQL
- EnterpriseDB Postgres Advanced Server 16 and 17

### User

Create a PostgreSQL user with the following permissions on the database:

- Permissions to create, modify, and read all tables and indices on all schemas
  within the database. Database owners commonly have these permissions.
- Permissions to create extensions. If you are unable to create a user with the
  `CREATE EXTENSION` privilege, refer to [Create extensions](#create-extensions)
  for instructions on creating the necessary extensions.
- The `rails`, `vault`, `registry`, `task_worker`, and `terraform_enterprise` PostgreSQL schemas are required. We recommend allowing the PostgreSQL user to create schemas so that Terraform Enterprise can create them automatically. If the PostgreSQL user does not have permissions to create schemas, they must be created prior to installation.

  <Note>
  Note that if you are changing the database user, ensure the new user is the owner of all
  enum types in the database to avoid failures for any potential migrations that
  attempt to `ALTER TYPE`.
  </Note>

### Azure Managed Identity requirements

Use Azure Managed Identity to [authenticate](#azure-msi-authentication) with Azure Database for PostgreSQL. Here are a few requirements:

- The managed identity must be able to [access the database](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/postgresql/flexible-server/how-to-connect-with-managed-identity) from the virtual machine.
- The managed identity must have the [required permissions](#user) on the database.

<Note>
  Terraform Enterprise does not support workload identities for authentication.
</Note>

### Google Default Credentials requirements

You can use Service Accounts to authenticate with DB
Use Google Default Credentials to [authenticate](#google-default-credentials) with SQL Database for PostgreSQL. Here are a few requirements:

- The service account user must be able to [access the database](https://cloud.google.com/sql/docs/postgres/iam-authentication) from the virtual machine.
- The service account user must have the [required permissions](#user) on the database.

## Create extensions

Create extensions for the `rails`, `vault`, `registry`, and `task_worker`
PostgreSQL schemas. The database server automatically creates these schemas if
they do not already exist.

Run the following commands on the PostgreSQL server to create the extensions:

```shell-session
CREATE EXTENSION IF NOT EXISTS "hstore" WITH SCHEMA "rails";
CREATE EXTENSION IF NOT EXISTS "uuid-ossp" WITH SCHEMA "rails";
CREATE EXTENSION IF NOT EXISTS "citext" WITH SCHEMA "registry";
```

## Specify PostgreSQL connection settings

Add the following settings to your Terraform Enterprise configuration:

- Set the `TFE_DATABASE_HOST` variable to the location of your PostgreSQL
  server. Format the location as `HOST[:PORT]`, for example `db.example.com` or
  `db.example.com:5432`. Multi host connection strings are not supported.
- Set the `TFE_DATABASE_NAME` variable to the name of the database you want to
  store the data in.
- Set the `TFE_DATABASE_USER` variable to the user name you want to use to
  access the database.
- Set the `TFE_DATABASE_PASSWORD` variable to the password for the user.

Refer to
[Database settings](/terraform/enterprise/deploy/reference/configuration#database-settings)
in the configuration reference for additional information.

### Additional connection parameters

Add the `TFE_DATABASE_PARAMETERS` variable to your configuration and specify any
additional connection parameters necessary to connect to the server.

#### `sslmode`

When providing extra keyword parameters for the database connection, the
`sslmode` parameter only allows the following values:

- `require`
- `verify-full`
- `verify-ca`
- `disable`

When operating Terraform Enterprise in `external` mode, the `sslmode` parameter
is set to `require` by default. When operating Terraform Enterprise in `disk`
mode, the `sslmode` parameter is set to `disable` by default.

Terraform Enterprise provides a certificates file at
`/etc/ssl/private/terraform-enterprise/bundle.pem`, which is required by the
`verify-full` and `verify-ca` modes.

Refer to the
[PostgreSQL library documentation](https://www.postgresql.org/docs/12/libpq-ssl.html)
for additional information about using `sslmode`.

## Configure authentication settings

You can use the following authentication methods so that Terraform Enterprise can communicate with the database. 

### Username and password authentication

You can configure Terraform Enterprise to use the database's user and password to authenticate with the server.
Set the `TFE_DATABASE_USER` and `TFE_DATABASE_PASSWORD` variable for username and password based authentication.

### Client certificate authentication

You can configure Terraform Enterprise to use PostgreSQL client certificates to authenticate with the server. When providing client certificates, the database password is not required and the `sslmode` parameter is set to `verify-full`. 
Terraform Enterprise requires PostgreSQL server certificate to use Subject Alternative Names (SANs) rather than relying solely on the legacy Common Name field.

Configure the following settings to use PostgreSQL client certificates: 

- Set the `TFE_DATABASE_USE_MTLS` variable to `true`.
- Specify the path to the CA certificate file in the `TFE_DATABASE_CA_CERT_FILE` variable.
- Specify the path to the client certificate file in the `TFE_DATABASE_CLIENT_CERT_FILE` variable.
- Specify the path to the client key in the `TFE_DATABASE_CLIENT_KEY_FILE` variable.

### Azure MSI authentication

You can use both system-assigned and user-assigned managed identities to authenticate to Azure Database for PostgreSQL flexible server.

Refer to the [Azure documentation](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/postgresql/flexible-server/how-to-connect-with-managed-identity) for more information.
When using Azure MSI authentication, the database password is not required.

Ensure that you meet the [requirements](#azure-managed-identity-requirements).

Configure the following settings to use Azure MSI:

- Set the `TFE_DATABASE_PASSWORDLESS_AZURE_USE_MSI` variable to `true`.
- Set the `TFE_DATABASE_PASSWORDLESS_AZURE_CLIENT_ID` to the client ID of the user-assigned managed identity. Leave it blank to use the system-assigned managed identity.
- Set the `TFE_DATABASE_USER` to the managed identity name.

Ensure that the managed identity has the [required permissions](#user) on the database. 
If you migrate from password-based authentication to MSI, the previous user may own the database and schemas. 
Reassign ownership or grant the necessary permissions to the managed identity user.
