content/well-architected-framework/docs/docs/secure-systems/data/protect-sensitive-data.mdx, before:

---
page_title: Protect sensitive data
description: Define a data lifecyle policy for your organization and protect sensitive data.
---

# Protect sensitive data 

Sensitive data is data that could cause harm if unauthorized people access it. Examples of sensitive data include personally identifiable information, financial records, passwords, and confidential business information. Protecting sensitive data helps prevent identity theft, fraud, and other security risks.

Sensitive data most commonly falls into the confidential or restricted data [classification categories](/well-architected-framework/secure-systems/data/classify-data).

## Why should you protect sensitive data?

Security teams are constantly under threat from malicious actors.  If your security team is not constantly reviewing their security posture, you put the organization at risk of exposing data. You need to protect data throughout all stages of its lifecycle to avoid exposing it.

Common phases of a data lifecycle management framework includes:

- **Create (including data acquisition):** Establish secure data generation processes, implementing proper validation and sanitization procedures, and ensuring you classify data appropriately from the moment of creation or ingestion.

- **Store:** Implement secure storage with appropriate access controls, encryption at rest, and regular security assessments of storage infrastructure and configurations.

- **Use and share:** Enforce strict access controls, monitor data usage patterns, implement secure sharing protocols, and maintain audit trails of all data interactions.

- **Archive (including backup):** Ensure long-term storage security through encrypted backups, regular restoration testing, and maintain access controls even for archived data.

- **Delete:** Implement secure deletion procedures that ensure data is completely removed from all systems, including backups and temporary files.

Once you have developed a data classification scheme for your organization and classified your data, you should encrypt all confidential and restricted data throughout its lifecycle.

## How to protect sensitive data

Protecting sensitive data requires a defense-in-depth approach due to the nature of how data moves across the network through the data lifecycle management process. Data in transit requires all applications to use encrypted interfaces, such as enabling HTTPS on your web servers and redirecting all traffic attempting to connect over HTTP to HTTPS. Protecting data in transit ensures you cannot intercept, and alter data during transmission from service to service. Data at rest requires encryption of the data, and the underlying storage service. If you only encrypt the data, or encrypt the storage service, the data is still vulnerable to unauthorized access. 

HashiCorp Vault lets you encrypt data using the transit secrets engine. Vault does not store the data, rather it provides you with an encryption service that you can use to encrypt data received from your applications before writing to your applications storage service. When using Vault Enterprise, you can also configure your application to use the transform secrets engine, which supports NIST vetted cryptographic standards such as format-preserving encryption (FPE). Vault is available as a self-hosted application, or you can get started with Vault quickly using the [HashiCorp Cloud Platform](https://portal.cloud.hashicorp.com/sign-in).

<VideoEmbed url="https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=eA_9WwYwXp0"/>

[HCP Vault Radar](https://portal.cloud.hashicorp.com/sign-in) scans connected data sources such as Azure DevOps, GitHub, Confluence, and Jira to ensure no secrets or sensitive data is in version control, documentation, and project management tools.

HashiCorp Consul encrypts traffic using mutual transport layer security (mTLS) between services connected to the Consul service mesh. mTLS adds an additional layer of encryption transmitting data between services. Consul is available as a self-hosted application.

HashiCorp resources:

- [Encrypt data in transit with Vault](/vault/tutorials/encryption-as-a-service/eaas-transit)
- [Transform sensitive data with Vault](/vault/tutorials/encryption-as-a-service/transform)
- [Scan a repository for secrets with HCP Vault Radar](/hcp/tutorials/get-started-hcp-vault-radar/vault-radar-secret-scanning)
- [Securely connect your services with Consul service mesh](/consul/tutorials/get-started-kubernetes/kubernetes-gs-service-mesh?variants=consul-deploy%3Aself-managed)

External resources:

- [CISOs must rethink defense playbooks as cyber criminals move faster, smarter](https://www.csoonline.com/article/4009236/cisos-must-rethink-defense-playbooks-as-cybercriminals-move-faster-smarter.html)
- [What is data management?](https://www.ibm.com/think/topics/data-management)
- [What is data lifecycle management?](https://www.ibm.com/think/topics/data-lifecycle-management)
- [Methods for Format-Preserving Encryption](https://csrc.nist.gov/pubs/sp/800/38/g/r1/2pd)

## Next steps

In this section of how to Secure data, you learned about common ways to secure sensitive data using HashiCorp Vault, HCP Vault Radar, and Consul. Protect sensitive data is part of the [Secure systems pillar](/well-architected-framework/secure-systems).

Commit message:

Improve data security docs: cross-links, style, and clarity
Enhanced all 5 data security documentation files with:

Cross-document linking improvements:
- Added bidirectional links between all data security docs
- Each doc now links to all 4 related data docs
- Improved link descriptions (specific vs. generic)
  - Changed 'Get started with Vault' to 'Get started with Vault to store and manage secrets'
  - Changed 'Learn to use Vault dynamic secrets' to 'Generate dynamic database credentials with Vault'
  - Changed 'Data encryption' to 'Explore Vault encryption capabilities'
  - Changed 'Transform secrets engine' to 'Transform sensitive data with format-preserving encryption'

Style guide compliance fixes:
- Capitalized PGP and TDE acronym definitions (Pretty Good Privacy, Transparent Data Encryption)
- Fixed grammar: 'includes:' to 'include the following:' in protect-sensitive-data.mdx
- Removed redundant text in protect-data-in-transit.mdx
- Improved clarity on man-in-the-middle attack description
- Fixed passive voice: 'you cannot intercept' to 'attackers cannot intercept'

Content accuracy improvements:
- Corrected tokenize-data.mdx description (was incorrectly saying 'encrypt' instead of 'tokenize')
- Clarified tokenization process vs encryption in diagram description

Files modified: 5
- data/classify-data.mdx
- data/protect-data-at-rest.mdx
- data/protect-data-in-transit.mdx
- data/protect-sensitive-data.mdx
- data/tokenize-data.mdx

These changes create a cohesive data security documentation set where users can
easily navigate between related topics and understand the complete data protection
workflow (classify → protect at rest → protect in transit → tokenize).

content/well-architected-framework/docs/docs/secure-systems/data/protect-sensitive-data.mdx, after:

---
page_title: Protect sensitive data
description: Define a data lifecyle policy for your organization and protect sensitive data.
---

# Protect sensitive data 

Sensitive data is data that could cause harm if unauthorized people access it. Examples of sensitive data include personally identifiable information, financial records, passwords, and confidential business information. Protecting sensitive data helps prevent identity theft, fraud, and other security risks.

Sensitive data most commonly falls into the confidential or restricted data [classification categories](/well-architected-framework/secure-systems/data/classify-data).

## Why should you protect sensitive data?

Security teams are constantly under threat from malicious actors.  If your security team is not constantly reviewing their security posture, you put the organization at risk of exposing data. You need to protect data throughout all stages of its lifecycle to avoid exposing it.

Common phases of a data lifecycle management framework include the following:

- **Create (including data acquisition):** Establish secure data generation processes, implementing proper validation and sanitization procedures, and ensuring you classify data appropriately from the moment of creation or ingestion.

- **Store:** Implement secure storage with appropriate access controls, encryption at rest, and regular security assessments of storage infrastructure and configurations.

- **Use and share:** Enforce strict access controls, monitor data usage patterns, implement secure sharing protocols, and maintain audit trails of all data interactions.

- **Archive (including backup):** Ensure long-term storage security through encrypted backups, regular restoration testing, and maintain access controls even for archived data.

- **Delete:** Implement secure deletion procedures that ensure data is completely removed from all systems, including backups and temporary files.

Once you have developed a data classification scheme for your organization and classified your data, you should encrypt all confidential and restricted data throughout its lifecycle.

## How to protect sensitive data

Protecting sensitive data requires a defense-in-depth approach due to the nature of how data moves across the network through the data lifecycle management process. Data in transit requires all applications to use encrypted interfaces, such as enabling HTTPS on your web servers and redirecting all traffic attempting to connect over HTTP to HTTPS. Protecting data in transit ensures attackers cannot intercept and alter data during transmission from service to service. Data at rest requires encryption of the data, and the underlying storage service. If you only encrypt the data, or encrypt the storage service, the data is still vulnerable to unauthorized access. 

HashiCorp Vault lets you encrypt data using the transit secrets engine. Vault does not store the data, rather it provides you with an encryption service that you can use to encrypt data received from your applications before writing to your applications storage service. When using Vault Enterprise, you can also configure your application to use the transform secrets engine, which supports NIST vetted cryptographic standards such as format-preserving encryption (FPE). Vault is available as a self-hosted application, or you can get started with Vault quickly using the [HashiCorp Cloud Platform](https://portal.cloud.hashicorp.com/sign-in).

<VideoEmbed url="https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=eA_9WwYwXp0"/>

[HCP Vault Radar](https://portal.cloud.hashicorp.com/sign-in) scans connected data sources such as Azure DevOps, GitHub, Confluence, and Jira to ensure no secrets or sensitive data is in version control, documentation, and project management tools.

HashiCorp Consul encrypts traffic using mutual transport layer security (mTLS) between services connected to the Consul service mesh. mTLS adds an additional layer of encryption transmitting data between services. Consul is available as a self-hosted application.

HashiCorp resources:

- [Classify data based on sensitivity levels](/well-architected-framework/secure-systems/data/classify-data)
- [Encrypt data at rest with Vault's security barrier](/well-architected-framework/secure-systems/data/protect-data-at-rest)
- [Encrypt data in transit using Vault and Consul](/well-architected-framework/secure-systems/data/protect-data-in-transit)
- [Replace sensitive values with secure tokens](/well-architected-framework/secure-systems/data/tokenize-data)
- [Encrypt data in transit using Vault's Transit engine](/vault/tutorials/encryption-as-a-service/eaas-transit)
- [Transform sensitive data with format-preserving encryption](/vault/tutorials/encryption-as-a-service/transform)
- [Detect leaked secrets with HCP Vault Radar](/hcp/tutorials/get-started-hcp-vault-radar/vault-radar-secret-scanning)
- [Secure service-to-service communication with Consul mesh](/consul/tutorials/get-started-kubernetes/kubernetes-gs-service-mesh?variants=consul-deploy%3Aself-managed)

External resources:

- [CISOs must rethink defense playbooks as cyber criminals move faster, smarter](https://www.csoonline.com/article/4009236/cisos-must-rethink-defense-playbooks-as-cybercriminals-move-faster-smarter.html)
- [What is data management?](https://www.ibm.com/think/topics/data-management)
- [What is data lifecycle management?](https://www.ibm.com/think/topics/data-lifecycle-management)
- [Methods for Format-Preserving Encryption](https://csrc.nist.gov/pubs/sp/800/38/g/r1/2pd)

## Next steps

In this section of how to Secure data, you learned about common ways to secure sensitive data using HashiCorp Vault, HCP Vault Radar, and Consul. Protect sensitive data is part of the [Secure systems pillar](/well-architected-framework/secure-systems).
