content/well-architected-framework/docs/docs/secure-systems/data/tokenize-data.mdx, before:

---
page_title: Tokenize data
description: Improve data security by replacing sensitive data with non-sensitive tokens.
---

# Tokenize data

Tokenization converts sensitive data into nonsensitive data called tokens. Tokens are helpful when you send sensitive data remotely, such as client authentication like GitHub login authentication, credit card numbers, banking credentials, or any other systems which require external authentication or data exchange.

## Why should you tokenize data?

Tokenizing data provides security benefits beyond encryption. When you tokenize data, you replace sensitive information with a non-sensitive token that has no exploitable value if exposed. The original data is stored securely in a separate system, and only the services use the token.

Unlike encrypted data, which can be decrypted if the encryption keys are compromised, tokens cannot be reversed without access to the secure tokenization system. Not having access to the tokenization systems reduces the risk if tokens are leaked, simplifies compliance, and limits the impact of data breaches.

## Tokenize data with Vault

You can use HashiCorp Vault to create tokens to secure data. Vault Transform secrets engine can tokenize data to replace highly sensitive data, like credit card numbers, with unique values (tokens) that are unrelated to the original value in any algorithmic sense. Therefore, the tokens do not risk exposing the critical data satisfying the Payment Card Industry Data Security Standard (PCI-DSS) guidance.

The following diagram shows how Vault can take sensitive data, such as a customer's credit card number, encrypt the value, and allow the application to use that credit card securely.

HashiCorp resources:

- [Vault Transform secrets engine](/vault/docs/secrets/transform)
- [Tokenize data with Transform secrets engine](/vault/tutorials/adp/tokenization)

## Next steps

In this section of how to Secure data, you learned about how to tokenize your data using HashiCorp Vault Enterprise. Tokenize data is part of the [Secure systems pillar](/well-architected-framework/secure-systems).

Commit message:

Improve data security docs: cross-links, style, and clarity
Enhanced all 5 data security documentation files with:

Cross-document linking improvements:
- Added bidirectional links between all data security docs
- Each doc now links to all 4 related data docs
- Improved link descriptions (specific vs. generic)
  - Changed 'Get started with Vault' to 'Get started with Vault to store and manage secrets'
  - Changed 'Learn to use Vault dynamic secrets' to 'Generate dynamic database credentials with Vault'
  - Changed 'Data encryption' to 'Explore Vault encryption capabilities'
  - Changed 'Transform secrets engine' to 'Transform sensitive data with format-preserving encryption'

Style guide compliance fixes:
- Capitalized PGP and TDE acronym definitions (Pretty Good Privacy, Transparent Data Encryption)
- Fixed grammar: 'includes:' to 'include the following:' in protect-sensitive-data.mdx
- Removed redundant text in protect-data-in-transit.mdx
- Improved clarity on man-in-the-middle attack description
- Fixed passive voice: 'you cannot intercept' to 'attackers cannot intercept'

Content accuracy improvements:
- Corrected tokenize-data.mdx description (was incorrectly saying 'encrypt' instead of 'tokenize')
- Clarified tokenization process vs encryption in diagram description

Files modified: 5
- data/classify-data.mdx
- data/protect-data-at-rest.mdx
- data/protect-data-in-transit.mdx
- data/protect-sensitive-data.mdx
- data/tokenize-data.mdx

These changes create a cohesive data security documentation set where users can
easily navigate between related topics and understand the complete data protection
workflow (classify → protect at rest → protect in transit → tokenize).

content/well-architected-framework/docs/docs/secure-systems/data/tokenize-data.mdx, after:

---
page_title: Tokenize data
description: Improve data security by replacing sensitive data with non-sensitive tokens.
---

# Tokenize data

Tokenization converts sensitive data into nonsensitive data called tokens. Tokens are helpful when you send sensitive data remotely, such as client authentication like GitHub login authentication, credit card numbers, banking credentials, or any other systems which require external authentication or data exchange.

## Why should you tokenize data?

Tokenizing data provides security benefits beyond encryption. When you tokenize data, you replace sensitive information with a non-sensitive token that has no exploitable value if exposed. The original data is stored securely in a separate system, and only the services use the token.

Unlike encrypted data, which can be decrypted if the encryption keys are compromised, tokens cannot be reversed without access to the secure tokenization system. Not having access to the tokenization systems reduces the risk if tokens are leaked, simplifies compliance, and limits the impact of data breaches.

## Tokenize data with Vault

You can use HashiCorp Vault to create tokens to secure data. Vault Transform secrets engine can tokenize data to replace highly sensitive data, like credit card numbers, with unique values (tokens) that are unrelated to the original value in any algorithmic sense. Therefore, the tokens do not risk exposing the critical data satisfying the Payment Card Industry Data Security Standard (PCI-DSS) guidance.

Vault can take sensitive data, such as a customer's credit card number, tokenize the value, and allow the application to use that token securely without exposing the original credit card number.

HashiCorp resources:

- [Classify data based on sensitivity levels](/well-architected-framework/secure-systems/data/classify-data)
- [Protect sensitive data throughout its lifecycle](/well-architected-framework/secure-systems/data/protect-sensitive-data)
- [Encrypt data at rest with Vault's security barrier](/well-architected-framework/secure-systems/data/protect-data-at-rest)
- [Encrypt data in transit using Vault and Consul](/well-architected-framework/secure-systems/data/protect-data-in-transit)
- [Vault Transform secrets engine documentation](/vault/docs/secrets/transform)
- [Tokenize sensitive data with Vault's Transform engine](/vault/tutorials/adp/tokenization)

## Next steps

In this section of how to Secure data, you learned about how to tokenize your data using HashiCorp Vault Enterprise. Tokenize data is part of the [Secure systems pillar](/well-architected-framework/secure-systems).
