content/terraform-enterprise/v202406-1/docs/enterprise/flexible-deployments/install/podman/install.mdx, before:

---
page_title: Podman - Installation - Flexible Deployment Options - Terraform Enterprise
description: >-
  Learn how to install Terraform Enterprise Flexible Deployment Options
  with Podman.
---

# Podman installation

This guide describes how to install and run Terraform Enterprise on Podman. These installation steps set up a rootful
Podman installation with a non-root user, meaning the Podman service runs as root while processes within the Terraform
Enterprise container run as non-root.

## Requirements

Before you begin, ensure you meet the Podman [requirements](/terraform/enterprise/flexible-deployments/install/podman/requirements)
for installing Terraform Enterprise on Podman.

### Mounted Disk operational mode
- [Durable storage](/terraform/enterprise/flexible-deployments/install/requirements/data-storage/operational-mode-requirements#mounted-disk)
  from the cloud provider of your choice. This configuration uses a volume mount to store Terraform Enterprise application data. The path you specify as
  the source of the volume mount must exist on the instance running Terraform Enterprise.

### External Services operational mode
- [PostgreSQL](/terraform/enterprise/flexible-deployments/install/requirements/data-storage/postgres-requirements) database server
- Blob storage (AWS S3, Azure Cloud Storage, Google Cloud Storage, or any S3-compatible storage service)

### Active/Active operational mode
- [PostgreSQL](/terraform/enterprise/flexible-deployments/install/requirements/data-storage/postgres-requirements) database server.
- Object-based storage, such as AWS S3, Azure Cloud Storage, Google Cloud Storage, or any S3-compatible storage service.
- Redis version 6 or 7. Redis Cluster is not currently supported.

## Set up

  1. Connect to the instance where you want to run Terraform Enterprise.

  1. Log in as the root user.

  1. For Mounted Disk installations, create a directory to be used for Terraform Enterprise data storage. Terraform Enterprise uses this
  directory as a volume mount to store application data.

  1. Create a directory for your TLS certificate (`cert.pem`), TLS
  private key (`key.pem`), and CA certificates bundle (`bundle.pem`). If you do not have a CA certificates bundle,
  place your TLS certificate (`cert.pem`) inside `bundle.pem` instead. When finished, this directory
  resembles the following tree:

  ```sh
  ├── cert.pem
  ├── key.pem
  └── bundle.pem
  ```

  1. Create a YAML file and populate it with your desired pod configuration. If you use one of the following example
  configurations, replace values enclosed in `<>` with your installation's values. For example, set `TFE_HOSTNAME` to
  the DNS hostname you use to access Terraform Enterprise.

  * [Mounted Disk operational mode Kubernetes YAML example](#mounted-disk)
  * [External Services operational mode Kubernetes YAML example](#external-services)
  * [Active/Active operational mode Kubernetes YAML example](#active-active)

  Refer to [Operation Modes](/terraform/enterprise/flexible-deployments/install/operation-modes) for additional information.

  1. We recommend automating the Podman [requirements](/terraform/enterprise/flexible-deployments/install/podman/requirements)
  listed in this section. These must be in place before downloading and installing Terraform Enterprise.

## Download and install image

  1. Log in to the Terraform Enterprise container image registry, using `terraform`
  as the username, and your Hashicorp Terraform Enterprise license as the password:

  ```shell-session
  # echo "<HASHICORP_LICENSE>" |  podman login --username terraform images.releases.hashicorp.com --password-stdin
  ```

  1. Pull the Terraform Enterprise image from the registry.

  ```shell-session
  # podman pull images.releases.hashicorp.com/hashicorp/terraform-enterprise:<vYYYYMM-#>
  ```

## Run

  1. Create a Terraform Enterprise pod by running the following command:

  ```shell-session
  # podman play kube <path_to_YAML_file>
  ```

  1. In a separate terminal session, you can monitor the logs by running the following command:

  ```shell-session
  # podman logs -f <container_name>
  ```

  1. Monitor the health of the application until it starts reporting healthy with the following command:

  ```shell-session
  # podman exec <container_name> tfe-health-check-status
  ```

## Create initial admin user

[Provision your first administrative user](/terraform/enterprise/flexible-deployments/install/initial-admin-user) and start using Terraform Enterprise.

## Service management

To learn more about managing the lifecycle of Podman pods, refer to [the Podman docs for more information about pods](https://podman.io/).
We have included possible options for managing a pod's lifecycle on a Red Hat Enterprise Linux (RHEL) host for convenience.

### Systemd

Complete the following steps to create a `systemd` service that automatically starts your pod and its containers. We
recommend using [Quadlet](https://www.redhat.com/sysadmin/quadlet-podman), which is an opinionated tool for running Podman
containers, to deploy `systemd`. Quadlet generates a `systemd` service that manages the Terraform Enterprise pod and
all containers, including the internal infrastructure container.

  1. Ensure the Terraform Enterprise pod is not running.

  1. Navigate to `/etc/containers/systemd/`. Define the service files in this directory.

  1. Create a Quadlet unit file for the Terraform Enterprise pod and container at `/etc/containers/systemd/terraform-enterprise.kube`:
  ```ini
    [Install]
    WantedBy=default.target
    [Service]
    Restart=always
    [Kube]
    Yaml=kube.yaml
  ```

  1. Copy your Kubernetes YAML file to `/etc/containers/systemd/tfe.yaml`:
  ```shell-session
  # cp <path_to_YAML_file> /etc/containers/systemd/tfe.yaml
  ```

  1. Reload the `systemd` daemon and enable the service:
  ```shell-session
  # systemctl daemon-reload
  # systemctl start terraform-enterprise.service
  ```

  1. Check the status of your service:
  ```shell-session
  # systemctl status terraform-enterprise.service

    ● terraform-enterprise.service
      Loaded: loaded (/etc/containers/systemd/terraform-enterprise.kube; generated)
      Active: active (running) since Sun 2024-02-25 21:15:55 UTC; 15min ago
    Main PID: 35893 (conmon)
        Tasks: 4 (limit: 404901)
      Memory: 5.2M
      CGroup: /system.slice/terraform-enterprise.service
              ├─35893 /usr/bin/conmon --api-version 1 -c 74f1271d9a481711950c62b509f126c3fdf8678a9d552c5ccc692eb6ed5cf4d1 -u 74f1271d9a481711950c62b509f126c3fdf8678a9d552c5ccc692eb6ed5cf4d1 ->
              ├─36028 /usr/sbin/dnsmasq -u root --conf-file=/run/containers/cni/dnsname/podman-default-kube-network/dnsmasq.conf
              ├─36030 /usr/bin/conmon --api-version 1 -c 973d3ff4f7ada5880a9947be4d90b3d556c7ce841037de34c7eaa07c044a3ec0 -u 973d3ff4f7ada5880a9947be4d90b3d556c7ce841037de34c7eaa07c044a3ec0 ->
              └─36083 /usr/bin/conmon --api-version 1 -c 435ea68e87dbef3c0965ffdfb9fe1fc36c5500a63eb00dc0fe2499aaa560a563 -u 435ea68e87dbef3c0965ffdfb9fe1fc36c5500a63eb00dc0fe2499aaa560a563 ->
  ```

## Kubernetes pod specification reference

This is not an exhaustive list of configuration options. Refer to [Configuration Reference](/terraform/enterprise/flexible-deployments/install/configuration)
for a list of all the configuration options.

### Mounted Disk

This Kubernetes YAML deploys Terraform Enterprise in Mounted Disk mode as a pod composed of a Terraform Enterprise container.

```yaml
---
apiVersion: "v1"
kind: "Pod"
metadata:
  labels:
    app: "terraform-enterprise"
  name: "terraform-enterprise"
spec:
  restartPolicy: "Never"
  containers:
  - env:
    - name: "TFE_OPERATIONAL_MODE"
      value: "disk"
    - name: "TFE_LICENSE"
      value: "<HashiCorp license>"
    - name: "TFE_HOSTNAME"
      value: "<Hostname>"
    - name: "TFE_HTTP_PORT"
      value: "8080"
    - name: "TFE_HTTPS_PORT"
      value: "8443"
    - name: "TFE_TLS_CERT_FILE"
      value: "/etc/ssl/private/terraform-enterprise/cert.pem"
    - name: "TFE_TLS_KEY_FILE"
      value: "/etc/ssl/private/terraform-enterprise/key.pem"
    - name: "TFE_TLS_CA_BUNDLE_FILE"
      value: "/etc/ssl/private/terraform-enterprise/bundle.pem"
    - name: "TFE_DISK_CACHE_VOLUME_NAME"
      value: "terraform-enterprise_terraform-enterprise-cache"
    - name: "TFE_LICENSE_REPORTING_OPT_OUT"
      value: "true"
    - name: "TFE_ENCRYPTION_PASSWORD"
      value: "<Encryption password>"
    image: "images.releases.hashicorp.com/hashicorp/terraform-enterprise:<vYYYYMM-#>"
    name: "terraform-enterprise"
    ports:
    - containerPort: 8080
      hostPort: 80
    - containerPort: 8443
      hostPort: 443
    - containerPort: 9090
      hostPort: 9090
    securityContext:
      capabilities:
        add:
        - "CAP_IPC_LOCK"
      readOnlyRootFilesystem: true
    volumeMounts:
    - mountPath: "/etc/ssl/private/terraform-enterprise"
      name: "certs"
    - mountPath: "/var/log/terraform-enterprise"
      name: "log"
    - mountPath: "/run"
      name: "run"
    - mountPath: "/tmp"
      name: "tmp"
    - mountPath: "/var/lib/terraform-enterprise"
      name: "data"
    - mountPath: "/run/docker.sock"
      name: "docker-sock"
    - mountPath: "/var/cache/tfe-task-worker/terraform"
      name: "terraform-enterprise_terraform-enterprise-cache-pvc"
  volumes:
  - hostPath:
      path: "<path_to_certs_on_host>"
      type: "Directory"
    name: "certs"
  - emptyDir:
      medium: "Memory"
    name: "log"
  - emptyDir:
      medium: "Memory"
    name: "run"
  - emptyDir:
      medium: "Memory"
    name: "tmp"
  - hostPath:
      path: "<mounted_disk_path_on_host>"
      type: "Directory"
    name: "data"
  - hostPath:
      path: "/var/run/docker.sock"
      type: "File"
    name: "docker-sock"
  - name: "terraform-enterprise_terraform-enterprise-cache-pvc"
    persistentVolumeClaim:
      claimName: "terraform-enterprise_terraform-enterprise-cache"
```

### External Services

The following Kubernetes YAML configuration deploys Terraform Enterprise in External Services mode
as a pod composed of a Terraform Enterprise container.

```yaml
---
apiVersion: "v1"
kind: "Pod"
metadata:
  labels:
    app: "terraform-enterprise"
  name: "terraform-enterprise"
spec:
  restartPolicy: "Never"
  containers:
  - env:
    - name: "TFE_LICENSE"
      value: "<HashiCorp license>"
    - name: "TFE_HOSTNAME"
      value: "<TFE hostname>"
    - name: "TFE_OPERATIONAL_MODE"
      value: "external"
    - name: "TFE_HTTP_PORT"
      value: "8080"
    - name: "TFE_HTTPS_PORT"
      value: "8443"
    - name: "TFE_ENCRYPTION_PASSWORD"
      value: "<Encryption password>"
    - name: "TFE_DISK_CACHE_VOLUME_NAME"
      value: "terraform-enterprise_terraform-enterprise-cache"
    - name: "TFE_TLS_CA_BUNDLE_FILE"
      value: "/etc/ssl/private/terraform-enterprise/bundle.pem"
    - name: "TFE_TLS_CERT_FILE"
      value: "/etc/ssl/private/terraform-enterprise/cert.pem"
    - name: "TFE_TLS_KEY_FILE"
      value: "/etc/ssl/private/terraform-enterprise/key.pem"
    - name: "TFE_HTTP_PORT"
      value: "8080"
    - name: "TFE_HTTPS_PORT"
      value: "8443"

    # Database settings. See the configuration reference for more settings.
    - name: "TFE_DATABASE_HOST"
      value: "<Database hostname and port e.g. postgres:5432>"
    - name: "TFE_DATABASE_NAME"
      value: "<Database name e.g. hashicorp>"
    - name: "TFE_DATABASE_PARAMETERS"
      value: "<Database parameters e.g. sslmode=disable>"
    - name: "TFE_DATABASE_PASSWORD"
      value: "<Database password e.g. postgres>"
    - name: "TFE_DATABASE_USER"
      value: "<Database user e.g. postgres>"

    # Object storage settings. See the configuration reference for more settings.
    - name: "TFE_OBJECT_STORAGE_TYPE"
      value: "s3"
    - name: "TFE_OBJECT_STORAGE_S3_ACCESS_KEY_ID"
      value: "<AWS Access Key ID>"
    - name: "TFE_OBJECT_STORAGE_S3_SECRET_ACCESS_KEY"
      value: "<AWS Secret Access Key>"
    - name: "TFE_OBJECT_STORAGE_S3_BUCKET"
      value: "<Bucket name>"
    - name: "TFE_OBJECT_STORAGE_S3_REGION"
      value: "<AWS region>"

    image: "images.releases.hashicorp.com/hashicorp/terraform-enterprise:<vYYYYMM-#>"
    name: "terraform-enterprise"
    ports:
    - containerPort: 8080
      hostPort: 80
    - containerPort: 8443
      hostPort: 443
    - containerPort: 8443
      hostPort: 443
    securityContext:
      capabilities:
        add:
        - "CAP_IPC_LOCK"
      readOnlyRootFilesystem: true
    volumeMounts:
    - mountPath: "/etc/ssl/private/terraform-enterprise"
      name: "certs"
    - mountPath: "/var/log/terraform-enterprise"
      name: "log"
    - mountPath: "/run"
      name: "run"
    - mountPath: "/tmp"
      name: "tmp"
    - mountPath: "/run/docker.sock"
      name: "docker-sock"
    - mountPath: "/var/cache/tfe-task-worker/terraform"
      name: "terraform-enterprise_terraform-enterprise-cache-pvc"
  volumes:
  - hostPath:
      path: "<path_to_certs_on_host>"
      type: "Directory"
    name: "certs"
  - emptyDir:
      medium: "Memory"
    name: "log"
  - emptyDir:
      medium: "Memory"
    name: "run"
  - emptyDir:
      medium: "Memory"
    name: "tmp"
  - hostPath:
      path: "/var/run/docker.sock"
      type: "File"
    name: "docker-sock"
  - name: "terraform-enterprise_terraform-enterprise-cache-pvc"
    persistentVolumeClaim:
      claimName: "terraform-enterprise_terraform-enterprise-cache"
```

### Active/Active

The following Kubernetes YAML configuration deploys Terraform Enterprise in Active/Active mode. In Active/Active mode,
each node runs a Podman pod composed of a Terraform Enterprise container.

```yaml
---
apiVersion: "v1"
kind: "Pod"
metadata:
  labels:
    app: "terraform-enterprise"
  name: "terraform-enterprise"
spec:
  containers:
  - env:
    - name: "TFE_LICENSE"
      value: "<HashiCorp license>"
    - name: "TFE_HOSTNAME"
      value: "<TFE hostname>"
    - name: "TFE_HTTP_PORT"
      value: "8080"
    - name: "TFE_HTTPS_PORT"
      value: "8443"
    - name: "TFE_OPERATIONAL_MODE"
      value: "active-active"
    - name: "TFE_ENCRYPTION_PASSWORD"
      value: "<Encryption password>"
    - name: "TFE_DISK_CACHE_VOLUME_NAME"
      value: "terraform-enterprise_terraform-enterprise-cache"
    - name: "TFE_TLS_CA_BUNDLE_FILE"
      value: "/etc/ssl/private/terraform-enterprise/bundle.pem"
    - name: "TFE_TLS_CERT_FILE"
      value: "/etc/ssl/private/terraform-enterprise/cert.pem"
    - name: "TFE_TLS_KEY_FILE"
      value: "/etc/ssl/private/terraform-enterprise/key.pem"

    # Database settings. See the configuration reference for more settings.
    - name: "TFE_DATABASE_HOST"
      value: "<Database hostname and port e.g. postgres:5432>"
    - name: "TFE_DATABASE_NAME"
      value: "<Database name e.g. hashicorp>"
    - name: "TFE_DATABASE_PARAMETERS"
      value: "<Database parameters e.g. sslmode=disable>"
    - name: "TFE_DATABASE_PASSWORD"
      value: "<Database password e.g. postgres>"
    - name: "TFE_DATABASE_USER"
      value: "<Database user e.g. postgres>"

    # Object storage settings. See the configuration reference for more settings.
    - name: "TFE_OBJECT_STORAGE_TYPE"
      value: "s3"
    - name: "TFE_OBJECT_STORAGE_S3_ACCESS_KEY_ID"
      value: "<AWS Access Key ID>"
    - name: "TFE_OBJECT_STORAGE_S3_SECRET_ACCESS_KEY"
      value: "<AWS Secret Access Key>"
    - name: "TFE_OBJECT_STORAGE_S3_BUCKET"
      value: "<Bucket name>"
    - name: "TFE_OBJECT_STORAGE_S3_REGION"
      value: "<AWS region>"

     # Redis settings. See the configuration reference for more settings.
    - name: "TFE_REDIS_HOST"
      value: "<Redis hostname and port>"
    - name: "TFE_REDIS_PASSWORD"
      value: "<Redis password>"
    - name: "TFE_REDIS_USER"
      value: "<Redis username>"
    - name: "TFE_REDIS_USE_AUTH"
      value: "<To use customized credential to authenticate? e.g. false>"
    - name: "TFE_REDIS_USE_TLS"
      value: "<To use tls? e.g. false>"

      # Vault cluster settings.
      # If you are using the default internal vault, this should be the private routable IP address of the node itself.
    - name: "TFE_VAULT_CLUSTER_ADDRESS"
      value: "https://10.0.66.189:8201"

    image: "images.releases.hashicorp.com/hashicorp/terraform-enterprise:<vYYYYMM-#>"
    name: "terraform-enterprise"
    ports:
    - containerPort: 8080
      hostPort: 80
    - containerPort: 8443
      hostPort: 443
    - containerPort: 8201
      hostPort: 8201
    securityContext:
      capabilities:
        add:
        - "CAP_IPC_LOCK"
      readOnlyRootFilesystem: true
    volumeMounts:
    - mountPath: "/etc/ssl/private/terraform-enterprise"
      name: "certs"
    - mountPath: "/var/log/terraform-enterprise"
      name: "log"
    - mountPath: "/run"
      name: "run"
    - mountPath: "/tmp"
      name: "tmp"
    - mountPath: "/run/docker.sock"
      name: "docker-sock"
    - mountPath: "/var/cache/tfe-task-worker/terraform"
      name: "terraform-enterprise_terraform-enterprise-cache-pvc"
  restartPolicy: "Never"
  volumes:
  - hostPath:
      path: "<path_to_certs_on_host>"
      type: "Directory"
    name: "certs"
  - emptyDir:
      medium: "Memory"
    name: "log"
  - emptyDir:
      medium: "Memory"
    name: "run"
  - emptyDir:
      medium: "Memory"
    name: "tmp"
  - hostPath:
      path: "/var/run/docker.sock"
      type: "File"
    name: "docker-sock"
  - name: "terraform-enterprise_terraform-enterprise-cache-pvc"
    persistentVolumeClaim:
      claimName: "terraform-enterprise_terraform-enterprise-cache"
```

Commit message:

Guide users to the releases page and explicitly state that "latest" is not a valid tag in this case.

content/terraform-enterprise/v202406-1/docs/enterprise/flexible-deployments/install/podman/install.mdx, after:

---
page_title: Podman - Installation - Flexible Deployment Options - Terraform Enterprise
description: >-
  Learn how to install Terraform Enterprise Flexible Deployment Options
  with Podman.
---

# Podman installation

This guide describes how to install and run Terraform Enterprise on Podman. These installation steps set up a rootful
Podman installation with a non-root user, meaning the Podman service runs as root while processes within the Terraform
Enterprise container run as non-root.

## Requirements

Before you begin, ensure you meet the Podman [requirements](/terraform/enterprise/flexible-deployments/install/podman/requirements)
for installing Terraform Enterprise on Podman.

### Mounted Disk operational mode
- [Durable storage](/terraform/enterprise/flexible-deployments/install/requirements/data-storage/operational-mode-requirements#mounted-disk)
  from the cloud provider of your choice. This configuration uses a volume mount to store Terraform Enterprise application data. The path you specify as
  the source of the volume mount must exist on the instance running Terraform Enterprise.

### External Services operational mode
- [PostgreSQL](/terraform/enterprise/flexible-deployments/install/requirements/data-storage/postgres-requirements) database server
- Blob storage (AWS S3, Azure Cloud Storage, Google Cloud Storage, or any S3-compatible storage service)

### Active/Active operational mode
- [PostgreSQL](/terraform/enterprise/flexible-deployments/install/requirements/data-storage/postgres-requirements) database server.
- Object-based storage, such as AWS S3, Azure Cloud Storage, Google Cloud Storage, or any S3-compatible storage service.
- Redis version 6 or 7. Redis Cluster is not currently supported.

## Set up

  1. Connect to the instance where you want to run Terraform Enterprise.

  1. Log in as the root user.

  1. For Mounted Disk installations, create a directory to be used for Terraform Enterprise data storage. Terraform Enterprise uses this
  directory as a volume mount to store application data.

  1. Create a directory for your TLS certificate (`cert.pem`), TLS
  private key (`key.pem`), and CA certificates bundle (`bundle.pem`). If you do not have a CA certificates bundle,
  place your TLS certificate (`cert.pem`) inside `bundle.pem` instead. When finished, this directory
  resembles the following tree:

  ```sh
  ├── cert.pem
  ├── key.pem
  └── bundle.pem
  ```

  1. Create a YAML file and populate it with your desired pod configuration. If you use one of the following example
  configurations, replace values enclosed in `<>` with your installation's values. For example, set `TFE_HOSTNAME` to
  the DNS hostname you use to access Terraform Enterprise.

  * [Mounted Disk operational mode Kubernetes YAML example](#mounted-disk)
  * [External Services operational mode Kubernetes YAML example](#external-services)
  * [Active/Active operational mode Kubernetes YAML example](#active-active)

  Refer to [Operation Modes](/terraform/enterprise/flexible-deployments/install/operation-modes) for additional information.

  1. We recommend automating the Podman [requirements](/terraform/enterprise/flexible-deployments/install/podman/requirements)
  listed in this section. These must be in place before downloading and installing Terraform Enterprise.

## Download and install image

  1. Log in to the Terraform Enterprise container image registry, using `terraform`
  as the username, and your Hashicorp Terraform Enterprise license as the password:

  ```shell-session
  # echo "<HASHICORP_LICENSE>" |  podman login --username terraform images.releases.hashicorp.com --password-stdin
  ```

  1. Pull the Terraform Enterprise image from the registry.  Refer to [Terraform Enterprise Releases](https://developer.hashicorp.com/terraform/enterprise/releases) for a list of versions and replace `<vYYYYMM-#>` with the version you wish to install; `latest` is not a valid tag.  

  ```shell-session
  # podman pull images.releases.hashicorp.com/hashicorp/terraform-enterprise:<vYYYYMM-#>
  ```

## Run

  1. Create a Terraform Enterprise pod by running the following command:

  ```shell-session
  # podman play kube <path_to_YAML_file>
  ```

  1. In a separate terminal session, you can monitor the logs by running the following command:

  ```shell-session
  # podman logs -f <container_name>
  ```

  1. Monitor the health of the application until it starts reporting healthy with the following command:

  ```shell-session
  # podman exec <container_name> tfe-health-check-status
  ```

## Create initial admin user

[Provision your first administrative user](/terraform/enterprise/flexible-deployments/install/initial-admin-user) and start using Terraform Enterprise.

## Service management

To learn more about managing the lifecycle of Podman pods, refer to [the Podman docs for more information about pods](https://podman.io/).
We have included possible options for managing a pod's lifecycle on a Red Hat Enterprise Linux (RHEL) host for convenience.

### Systemd

Complete the following steps to create a `systemd` service that automatically starts your pod and its containers. We
recommend using [Quadlet](https://www.redhat.com/sysadmin/quadlet-podman), which is an opinionated tool for running Podman
containers, to deploy `systemd`. Quadlet generates a `systemd` service that manages the Terraform Enterprise pod and
all containers, including the internal infrastructure container.

  1. Ensure the Terraform Enterprise pod is not running.

  1. Navigate to `/etc/containers/systemd/`. Define the service files in this directory.

  1. Create a Quadlet unit file for the Terraform Enterprise pod and container at `/etc/containers/systemd/terraform-enterprise.kube`:
  ```ini
    [Install]
    WantedBy=default.target
    [Service]
    Restart=always
    [Kube]
    Yaml=kube.yaml
  ```

  1. Copy your Kubernetes YAML file to `/etc/containers/systemd/tfe.yaml`:
  ```shell-session
  # cp <path_to_YAML_file> /etc/containers/systemd/tfe.yaml
  ```

  1. Reload the `systemd` daemon and enable the service:
  ```shell-session
  # systemctl daemon-reload
  # systemctl start terraform-enterprise.service
  ```

  1. Check the status of your service:
  ```shell-session
  # systemctl status terraform-enterprise.service

    ● terraform-enterprise.service
      Loaded: loaded (/etc/containers/systemd/terraform-enterprise.kube; generated)
      Active: active (running) since Sun 2024-02-25 21:15:55 UTC; 15min ago
    Main PID: 35893 (conmon)
        Tasks: 4 (limit: 404901)
      Memory: 5.2M
      CGroup: /system.slice/terraform-enterprise.service
              ├─35893 /usr/bin/conmon --api-version 1 -c 74f1271d9a481711950c62b509f126c3fdf8678a9d552c5ccc692eb6ed5cf4d1 -u 74f1271d9a481711950c62b509f126c3fdf8678a9d552c5ccc692eb6ed5cf4d1 ->
              ├─36028 /usr/sbin/dnsmasq -u root --conf-file=/run/containers/cni/dnsname/podman-default-kube-network/dnsmasq.conf
              ├─36030 /usr/bin/conmon --api-version 1 -c 973d3ff4f7ada5880a9947be4d90b3d556c7ce841037de34c7eaa07c044a3ec0 -u 973d3ff4f7ada5880a9947be4d90b3d556c7ce841037de34c7eaa07c044a3ec0 ->
              └─36083 /usr/bin/conmon --api-version 1 -c 435ea68e87dbef3c0965ffdfb9fe1fc36c5500a63eb00dc0fe2499aaa560a563 -u 435ea68e87dbef3c0965ffdfb9fe1fc36c5500a63eb00dc0fe2499aaa560a563 ->
  ```

## Kubernetes pod specification reference

This is not an exhaustive list of configuration options. Refer to [Configuration Reference](/terraform/enterprise/flexible-deployments/install/configuration)
for a list of all the configuration options.

### Mounted Disk

This Kubernetes YAML deploys Terraform Enterprise in Mounted Disk mode as a pod composed of a Terraform Enterprise container.

```yaml
---
apiVersion: "v1"
kind: "Pod"
metadata:
  labels:
    app: "terraform-enterprise"
  name: "terraform-enterprise"
spec:
  restartPolicy: "Never"
  containers:
  - env:
    - name: "TFE_OPERATIONAL_MODE"
      value: "disk"
    - name: "TFE_LICENSE"
      value: "<HashiCorp license>"
    - name: "TFE_HOSTNAME"
      value: "<Hostname>"
    - name: "TFE_HTTP_PORT"
      value: "8080"
    - name: "TFE_HTTPS_PORT"
      value: "8443"
    - name: "TFE_TLS_CERT_FILE"
      value: "/etc/ssl/private/terraform-enterprise/cert.pem"
    - name: "TFE_TLS_KEY_FILE"
      value: "/etc/ssl/private/terraform-enterprise/key.pem"
    - name: "TFE_TLS_CA_BUNDLE_FILE"
      value: "/etc/ssl/private/terraform-enterprise/bundle.pem"
    - name: "TFE_DISK_CACHE_VOLUME_NAME"
      value: "terraform-enterprise_terraform-enterprise-cache"
    - name: "TFE_LICENSE_REPORTING_OPT_OUT"
      value: "true"
    - name: "TFE_ENCRYPTION_PASSWORD"
      value: "<Encryption password>"
    image: "images.releases.hashicorp.com/hashicorp/terraform-enterprise:<vYYYYMM-#>"
    name: "terraform-enterprise"
    ports:
    - containerPort: 8080
      hostPort: 80
    - containerPort: 8443
      hostPort: 443
    - containerPort: 9090
      hostPort: 9090
    securityContext:
      capabilities:
        add:
        - "CAP_IPC_LOCK"
      readOnlyRootFilesystem: true
    volumeMounts:
    - mountPath: "/etc/ssl/private/terraform-enterprise"
      name: "certs"
    - mountPath: "/var/log/terraform-enterprise"
      name: "log"
    - mountPath: "/run"
      name: "run"
    - mountPath: "/tmp"
      name: "tmp"
    - mountPath: "/var/lib/terraform-enterprise"
      name: "data"
    - mountPath: "/run/docker.sock"
      name: "docker-sock"
    - mountPath: "/var/cache/tfe-task-worker/terraform"
      name: "terraform-enterprise_terraform-enterprise-cache-pvc"
  volumes:
  - hostPath:
      path: "<path_to_certs_on_host>"
      type: "Directory"
    name: "certs"
  - emptyDir:
      medium: "Memory"
    name: "log"
  - emptyDir:
      medium: "Memory"
    name: "run"
  - emptyDir:
      medium: "Memory"
    name: "tmp"
  - hostPath:
      path: "<mounted_disk_path_on_host>"
      type: "Directory"
    name: "data"
  - hostPath:
      path: "/var/run/docker.sock"
      type: "File"
    name: "docker-sock"
  - name: "terraform-enterprise_terraform-enterprise-cache-pvc"
    persistentVolumeClaim:
      claimName: "terraform-enterprise_terraform-enterprise-cache"
```

### External Services

The following Kubernetes YAML configuration deploys Terraform Enterprise in External Services mode
as a pod composed of a Terraform Enterprise container.

```yaml
---
apiVersion: "v1"
kind: "Pod"
metadata:
  labels:
    app: "terraform-enterprise"
  name: "terraform-enterprise"
spec:
  restartPolicy: "Never"
  containers:
  - env:
    - name: "TFE_LICENSE"
      value: "<HashiCorp license>"
    - name: "TFE_HOSTNAME"
      value: "<TFE hostname>"
    - name: "TFE_OPERATIONAL_MODE"
      value: "external"
    - name: "TFE_HTTP_PORT"
      value: "8080"
    - name: "TFE_HTTPS_PORT"
      value: "8443"
    - name: "TFE_ENCRYPTION_PASSWORD"
      value: "<Encryption password>"
    - name: "TFE_DISK_CACHE_VOLUME_NAME"
      value: "terraform-enterprise_terraform-enterprise-cache"
    - name: "TFE_TLS_CA_BUNDLE_FILE"
      value: "/etc/ssl/private/terraform-enterprise/bundle.pem"
    - name: "TFE_TLS_CERT_FILE"
      value: "/etc/ssl/private/terraform-enterprise/cert.pem"
    - name: "TFE_TLS_KEY_FILE"
      value: "/etc/ssl/private/terraform-enterprise/key.pem"
    - name: "TFE_HTTP_PORT"
      value: "8080"
    - name: "TFE_HTTPS_PORT"
      value: "8443"

    # Database settings. See the configuration reference for more settings.
    - name: "TFE_DATABASE_HOST"
      value: "<Database hostname and port e.g. postgres:5432>"
    - name: "TFE_DATABASE_NAME"
      value: "<Database name e.g. hashicorp>"
    - name: "TFE_DATABASE_PARAMETERS"
      value: "<Database parameters e.g. sslmode=disable>"
    - name: "TFE_DATABASE_PASSWORD"
      value: "<Database password e.g. postgres>"
    - name: "TFE_DATABASE_USER"
      value: "<Database user e.g. postgres>"

    # Object storage settings. See the configuration reference for more settings.
    - name: "TFE_OBJECT_STORAGE_TYPE"
      value: "s3"
    - name: "TFE_OBJECT_STORAGE_S3_ACCESS_KEY_ID"
      value: "<AWS Access Key ID>"
    - name: "TFE_OBJECT_STORAGE_S3_SECRET_ACCESS_KEY"
      value: "<AWS Secret Access Key>"
    - name: "TFE_OBJECT_STORAGE_S3_BUCKET"
      value: "<Bucket name>"
    - name: "TFE_OBJECT_STORAGE_S3_REGION"
      value: "<AWS region>"

    image: "images.releases.hashicorp.com/hashicorp/terraform-enterprise:<vYYYYMM-#>"
    name: "terraform-enterprise"
    ports:
    - containerPort: 8080
      hostPort: 80
    - containerPort: 8443
      hostPort: 443
    - containerPort: 8443
      hostPort: 443
    securityContext:
      capabilities:
        add:
        - "CAP_IPC_LOCK"
      readOnlyRootFilesystem: true
    volumeMounts:
    - mountPath: "/etc/ssl/private/terraform-enterprise"
      name: "certs"
    - mountPath: "/var/log/terraform-enterprise"
      name: "log"
    - mountPath: "/run"
      name: "run"
    - mountPath: "/tmp"
      name: "tmp"
    - mountPath: "/run/docker.sock"
      name: "docker-sock"
    - mountPath: "/var/cache/tfe-task-worker/terraform"
      name: "terraform-enterprise_terraform-enterprise-cache-pvc"
  volumes:
  - hostPath:
      path: "<path_to_certs_on_host>"
      type: "Directory"
    name: "certs"
  - emptyDir:
      medium: "Memory"
    name: "log"
  - emptyDir:
      medium: "Memory"
    name: "run"
  - emptyDir:
      medium: "Memory"
    name: "tmp"
  - hostPath:
      path: "/var/run/docker.sock"
      type: "File"
    name: "docker-sock"
  - name: "terraform-enterprise_terraform-enterprise-cache-pvc"
    persistentVolumeClaim:
      claimName: "terraform-enterprise_terraform-enterprise-cache"
```

### Active/Active

The following Kubernetes YAML configuration deploys Terraform Enterprise in Active/Active mode. In Active/Active mode,
each node runs a Podman pod composed of a Terraform Enterprise container.

```yaml
---
apiVersion: "v1"
kind: "Pod"
metadata:
  labels:
    app: "terraform-enterprise"
  name: "terraform-enterprise"
spec:
  containers:
  - env:
    - name: "TFE_LICENSE"
      value: "<HashiCorp license>"
    - name: "TFE_HOSTNAME"
      value: "<TFE hostname>"
    - name: "TFE_HTTP_PORT"
      value: "8080"
    - name: "TFE_HTTPS_PORT"
      value: "8443"
    - name: "TFE_OPERATIONAL_MODE"
      value: "active-active"
    - name: "TFE_ENCRYPTION_PASSWORD"
      value: "<Encryption password>"
    - name: "TFE_DISK_CACHE_VOLUME_NAME"
      value: "terraform-enterprise_terraform-enterprise-cache"
    - name: "TFE_TLS_CA_BUNDLE_FILE"
      value: "/etc/ssl/private/terraform-enterprise/bundle.pem"
    - name: "TFE_TLS_CERT_FILE"
      value: "/etc/ssl/private/terraform-enterprise/cert.pem"
    - name: "TFE_TLS_KEY_FILE"
      value: "/etc/ssl/private/terraform-enterprise/key.pem"

    # Database settings. See the configuration reference for more settings.
    - name: "TFE_DATABASE_HOST"
      value: "<Database hostname and port e.g. postgres:5432>"
    - name: "TFE_DATABASE_NAME"
      value: "<Database name e.g. hashicorp>"
    - name: "TFE_DATABASE_PARAMETERS"
      value: "<Database parameters e.g. sslmode=disable>"
    - name: "TFE_DATABASE_PASSWORD"
      value: "<Database password e.g. postgres>"
    - name: "TFE_DATABASE_USER"
      value: "<Database user e.g. postgres>"

    # Object storage settings. See the configuration reference for more settings.
    - name: "TFE_OBJECT_STORAGE_TYPE"
      value: "s3"
    - name: "TFE_OBJECT_STORAGE_S3_ACCESS_KEY_ID"
      value: "<AWS Access Key ID>"
    - name: "TFE_OBJECT_STORAGE_S3_SECRET_ACCESS_KEY"
      value: "<AWS Secret Access Key>"
    - name: "TFE_OBJECT_STORAGE_S3_BUCKET"
      value: "<Bucket name>"
    - name: "TFE_OBJECT_STORAGE_S3_REGION"
      value: "<AWS region>"

     # Redis settings. See the configuration reference for more settings.
    - name: "TFE_REDIS_HOST"
      value: "<Redis hostname and port>"
    - name: "TFE_REDIS_PASSWORD"
      value: "<Redis password>"
    - name: "TFE_REDIS_USER"
      value: "<Redis username>"
    - name: "TFE_REDIS_USE_AUTH"
      value: "<To use customized credential to authenticate? e.g. false>"
    - name: "TFE_REDIS_USE_TLS"
      value: "<To use tls? e.g. false>"

      # Vault cluster settings.
      # If you are using the default internal vault, this should be the private routable IP address of the node itself.
    - name: "TFE_VAULT_CLUSTER_ADDRESS"
      value: "https://10.0.66.189:8201"

    image: "images.releases.hashicorp.com/hashicorp/terraform-enterprise:<vYYYYMM-#>"
    name: "terraform-enterprise"
    ports:
    - containerPort: 8080
      hostPort: 80
    - containerPort: 8443
      hostPort: 443
    - containerPort: 8201
      hostPort: 8201
    securityContext:
      capabilities:
        add:
        - "CAP_IPC_LOCK"
      readOnlyRootFilesystem: true
    volumeMounts:
    - mountPath: "/etc/ssl/private/terraform-enterprise"
      name: "certs"
    - mountPath: "/var/log/terraform-enterprise"
      name: "log"
    - mountPath: "/run"
      name: "run"
    - mountPath: "/tmp"
      name: "tmp"
    - mountPath: "/run/docker.sock"
      name: "docker-sock"
    - mountPath: "/var/cache/tfe-task-worker/terraform"
      name: "terraform-enterprise_terraform-enterprise-cache-pvc"
  restartPolicy: "Never"
  volumes:
  - hostPath:
      path: "<path_to_certs_on_host>"
      type: "Directory"
    name: "certs"
  - emptyDir:
      medium: "Memory"
    name: "log"
  - emptyDir:
      medium: "Memory"
    name: "run"
  - emptyDir:
      medium: "Memory"
    name: "tmp"
  - hostPath:
      path: "/var/run/docker.sock"
      type: "File"
    name: "docker-sock"
  - name: "terraform-enterprise_terraform-enterprise-cache-pvc"
    persistentVolumeClaim:
      claimName: "terraform-enterprise_terraform-enterprise-cache"
```
