content/boundary/v0.21.x/content/docs/commands/connect/index.mdx, before:

---
layout: docs
page_title: connect - Command
description: >-
  The "connect" command authorizes a target resource and launches a proxied connection.
---

# connect

Command: `boundary connect`

Every command that results in an API call contains a set of flags that control connection options, which include TLS and other settings.
Boundary provides connect helpers that can facilitate access to certain protocols like HTTP, RDP, and SSH.
One example is the Boundary helper for SSH that automatically accepts host SSH key prompts for you.
You run these connect helpers using the command `boundary connect <subcommand>`.
You can run `boundary connect -h` to see the available helpers, options, and arguments.

## Examples

The following example connects to a target `ttcP_INY0BCD2VF` and shows the use of the
[`-listen-addr`](/boundary/docs/commands//connect#-listen-port) and
[`-listen-port`](/boundary/docs/commands//connect#-listen-addr) flags
to specify the listening address and port used that Boundary will attempt to use
for every connection. This example uses the address `127.0.0.1` and
the port `8872`:

```shell-session
$ boundary connect ssh \
    -listen-addr=127.0.0.1 \
    -listen-port=8872
    -target_id=ttcp_INY0BCD2VF
```

## Usage

<CodeBlockConfig hideClipboard>

```text
Usage: boundary connect <subcommand> [options] [args]
  # ...
Subcommands:
    http        Authorize a session against a target and invoke an HTTP client to connect
    kube        Authorize a session against a target and invoke a Kubernetes client to connect
    cassandra   Authorize a session against a target and invoke a Cassandra client to connect
    mysql       Authorize a session against a target and invoke a MySQL client to connect
    postgres    Authorize a session against a target and invoke a Postgres client to connect
    rdp         Authorize a session against a target and invoke an RDP client to connect
    ssh         Authorize a session against a target and invoke an SSH client to connect
```

</CodeBlockConfig>

For more information, examples, and usage, click on the name
of the subcommand in the sidebar or one of the links below:

- [http](/boundary/docs/commands/connect/http)
- [kube](/boundary/docs/commands/connect/kube)
- [cassandra](/boundary/docs/commands/connect/cassandra)
- [mysql](/boundary/docs/commands/connect/mysql)
- [postgres](/boundary/docs/commands/connect/postgres)
- [rdp](/boundary/docs/commands/connect/rdp)
- [ssh](/boundary/docs/commands/connect/ssh)

### Command options

-  `-addr` `(string: "")` - The address of the Boundary controller as a complete URL, for example https://boundary.example.com:9200.
   Instead of passing the `-addr` argument with every command, you can configure the **BOUNDARY_ADDR** environment variable.
   In both cases, the value denotes the address of the Boundary environment you want to send CLI commands to.
-  `-ca-cert` `(string: "")` - The path on the local disk to a single PEM-encoded CA certificate that should be used to verify the controller or worker server's SSL certificate.
   This value takes precedence over `-ca-path`.
   You can also specify the path using the **BOUNDARY_CACERT** environment variable.
-  `-ca-path` `(string: "")` - The path on the local disk to a directory of PEM-encoded CA certificates that should be used to verify the controller's SSL certificate.
   You can also specify the path using the **BOUNDARY_CAPATH** environment variable.
-  `-client-cert` `(string: "")` - The path on the local disk to a single PEM-encoded CA certificate that should be used for TLS authentication to the Boundary controller.
   If you configure this flag, the `-client-key` value is also required.
   You can also specify the path using the **BOUNDARY_CLIENT_CERT** environment variable.
-  `-client-key` `(string: "")` - The path on the local disk to a single PEM-encoded private key that matches the client certificate you referenced with `-client-cert`.
  You can also specify the path using the **BOUNDARY_CLIENT_KEY** environment variable.
-  `-listen-addr` `(string: "")` - If set, the CLI attempts to bind its listening address to the given value, which must be an IP address.
   If it cannot bind the listening address, the command produces an error.
   If you do not set this value, Boundary defaults to the most common IPv4 loopback address, 127.0.0.1.
   You can also specify a listening address using the **BOUNDARY_CONNECT_LISTEN_ADDR** environment variable.
-  `-listen-port` `(string: "")` - If set, the CLI attempts to bind its listening port to the given value.
   If it cannot bind the listening port, the command produces error.
   You can also specify a listening address using the **BOUNDARY_CONNECT_LISTEN_PORT** environment variable.
- `-tls-insecure` - If set, this option disables verification of TLS certificates.
   We highly discourage using this option as it decreases the security of data transmissions to
      and from the Boundary server.
      The default value is `false`.
      You can also disable TLS certificate validation using the **BOUNDARY_TLS_INSECURE** environment variable.
-  `-tls-server-name` `(string: "")` - A name to use as the SNI host when you connect to the Boundary server using TLS.
   You can also specify the SNI host using the **BOUNDARY_TLS_SERVER_NAME** environment variable.


@include 'cmd-connect-command-options.mdx'

Commit message:

docs: Add new connect option

content/boundary/v0.21.x/content/docs/commands/connect/index.mdx, after:

---
layout: docs
page_title: connect - Command
description: >-
  The "connect" command authorizes a target resource and launches a proxied connection.
---

# connect

Command: `boundary connect`

Every command that results in an API call contains a set of flags that control connection options, which include TLS and other settings.
Boundary provides connect helpers that can facilitate access to certain protocols like HTTP, RDP, and SSH.
One example is the Boundary helper for SSH that automatically accepts host SSH key prompts for you.
You run these connect helpers using the command `boundary connect <subcommand>`.
You can run `boundary connect -h` to see the available helpers, options, and arguments.

## Examples

The following example connects to a target `ttcP_INY0BCD2VF` and shows the use of the
[`-listen-addr`](/boundary/docs/commands//connect#-listen-port) and
[`-listen-port`](/boundary/docs/commands//connect#-listen-addr) flags
to specify the listening address and port used that Boundary will attempt to use
for every connection. This example uses the address `127.0.0.1` and
the port `8872`:

```shell-session
$ boundary connect ssh \
    -listen-addr=127.0.0.1 \
    -listen-port=8872
    -target_id=ttcp_INY0BCD2VF
```

## Usage

<CodeBlockConfig hideClipboard>

```text
Usage: boundary connect <subcommand> [options] [args]
  # ...
Subcommands:
    http        Authorize a session against a target and invoke an HTTP client to connect
    kube        Authorize a session against a target and invoke a Kubernetes client to connect
    cassandra   Authorize a session against a target and invoke a Cassandra client to connect
    mysql       Authorize a session against a target and invoke a MySQL client to connect
    postgres    Authorize a session against a target and invoke a Postgres client to connect
    rdp         Authorize a session against a target and invoke an RDP client to connect
    ssh         Authorize a session against a target and invoke an SSH client to connect
```

</CodeBlockConfig>

For more information, examples, and usage, click on the name
of the subcommand in the sidebar or one of the links below:

- [http](/boundary/docs/commands/connect/http)
- [kube](/boundary/docs/commands/connect/kube)
- [cassandra](/boundary/docs/commands/connect/cassandra)
- [mysql](/boundary/docs/commands/connect/mysql)
- [postgres](/boundary/docs/commands/connect/postgres)
- [rdp](/boundary/docs/commands/connect/rdp)
- [ssh](/boundary/docs/commands/connect/ssh)

### Command options

-  `-addr` `(string: "")` - The address of the Boundary controller as a complete URL, for example https://boundary.example.com:9200.
   Instead of passing the `-addr` argument with every command, you can configure the **BOUNDARY_ADDR** environment variable.
   In both cases, the value denotes the address of the Boundary environment you want to send CLI commands to.
-  `-ca-cert` `(string: "")` - The path on the local disk to a single PEM-encoded CA certificate that should be used to verify the controller or worker server's SSL certificate.
   This value takes precedence over `-ca-path`.
   You can also specify the path using the **BOUNDARY_CACERT** environment variable.
-  `-ca-path` `(string: "")` - The path on the local disk to a directory of PEM-encoded CA certificates that should be used to verify the controller's SSL certificate.
   You can also specify the path using the **BOUNDARY_CAPATH** environment variable.
-  `-client-cert` `(string: "")` - The path on the local disk to a single PEM-encoded CA certificate that should be used for TLS authentication to the Boundary controller.
   If you configure this flag, the `-client-key` value is also required.
   You can also specify the path using the **BOUNDARY_CLIENT_CERT** environment variable.
-  `-client-key` `(string: "")` - The path on the local disk to a single PEM-encoded private key that matches the client certificate you referenced with `-client-cert`.
  You can also specify the path using the **BOUNDARY_CLIENT_KEY** environment variable.
- `inactive-timeout=<duration>` - The amount of time in seconds that can pass between connections before Boundary closes any unused sessions.
You can increase this value if the proxy closes during long-running processes.
Use `-1` to disable the timeout altogether.
If you do not specify a timeout value, Boundary uses a default value based on the subcommand:
  - `connect` without a subcommand = 30 seconds
  - `rdp` = 5 seconds
  - `ssh` = 1 second
  - All other protocols = 3 seconds
-  `-listen-addr` `(string: "")` - If set, the CLI attempts to bind its listening address to the given value, which must be an IP address.
   If it cannot bind the listening address, the command produces an error.
   If you do not set this value, Boundary defaults to the most common IPv4 loopback address, 127.0.0.1.
   You can also specify a listening address using the **BOUNDARY_CONNECT_LISTEN_ADDR** environment variable.
-  `-listen-port` `(string: "")` - If set, the CLI attempts to bind its listening port to the given value.
   If it cannot bind the listening port, the command produces error.
   You can also specify a listening address using the **BOUNDARY_CONNECT_LISTEN_PORT** environment variable.
- `-tls-insecure` - If set, this option disables verification of TLS certificates.
   We highly discourage using this option as it decreases the security of data transmissions to
      and from the Boundary server.
      The default value is `false`.
      You can also disable TLS certificate validation using the **BOUNDARY_TLS_INSECURE** environment variable.
-  `-tls-server-name` `(string: "")` - A name to use as the SNI host when you connect to the Boundary server using TLS.
   You can also specify the SNI host using the **BOUNDARY_TLS_SERVER_NAME** environment variable.


@include 'cmd-connect-command-options.mdx'
