content/consul/v1.21.x/content/docs/integrate/vault/k8s.mdx, before:

---
layout: docs
page_title: Use Vault for secrets management with Consul on Kubernetes
description: >-
  Secure Consul on Kubernetes using gossip encryption, TLS certificates, and service mesh certificates using Vault as secrets management.
---

# Use Vault for secrets management with Consul on Kubernetes

This page describes how to securely deploy Consul on Kubernetes using Vault as a secrets manager. Using Vault, you can securely store and centrally manage the secrets you will need to provide to your Consul agents. These include, but are not limited to, gossip encryption keys, TLS certificates, service mesh certificates. Furthermore, you can also [store and manage your Consul Enterprise license](/consul/docs/deploy/server/k8s/vault/data/enterprise-license).

The following architecture diagram depicts the desired outcome.

![Architectural diagram for Vault as Consul secrets manager](/img/kubernetes-diagram-vault-as-secrets-manager.png)


## Workflow

The following steps describe specific tasks for Vault secrets management for Consul on Kubernetes:

1. Store enterprise license in Vault
1. Store Consul gossip key in Vault
1. Setup PKI secrets engine for TLS and service mesh CA
1. Authenticate using a Kubernetes service account using the Vault Kubernetes authentication engine

<Note>

 This article assumes that you are using Consul's default value for a datacenter name `dc1`, and the default domain `consul`. If you have deployed Consul with different datacenter and domain values, adjust the related values in the following example commands accordingly.

</Note>

### Prerequisites

First, if key/value v2 secrets engine `kv-v2` is not already enabled, enable it in Vault. In this example, we enable it at the `consul/` path.

```shell-session
$ vault secrets enable -path=consul kv-v2
Success! Enabled the kv-v2 secrets engine at: consul/
```

### Store enterprise license in Vault

You can safely store the license for Consul enterprise in Vault. This allows Consul agents to retrieve the license from Vault during initialization. In this example, the license is called `consul.hclic`. Store the license in Vault using the `consul/` instance of the `kv` secrets engine.

```shell-session
$ vault kv put consul/secret/enterpriselicense key="$(cat ./consul.hclic)"
Key                Value
---                -----
created_time       2022-03-22T16:25:14.073090874Z
custom_metadata    <nil>
deletion_time      n/a
destroyed          false
version            1
```

When using Consul Enterprise, you must distribute the license to your Consul nodes.
After you just stored the Consul license in the Vault `kv` secrets engine, you will need to define a policy that grants access to the path where you stored the license.

```shell-session
$ vault policy write enterpriselicense-policy - <<EOF
path "consul/data/secret/enterpriselicense" {
  capabilities = ["read"]
}
EOF
```

The command should return an output similar to the following.

<CodeBlockConfig hideClipboard>

```plaintext
Success! Uploaded policy: enterpriselicense-policy
```

</CodeBlockConfig>

Finally, edit the Consul Helm chart values file to reference the Vault path and key where the enterprise license is stored.

```yaml
global:
##...
  enterpriseLicense:
    secretName: 'consul/data/secret/enterpriselicense'
    secretKey: 'key'
##...
```

### Store Consul gossip key in Vault

First, generate and store the encryption key in Vault.

```shell-session
$ vault kv put consul/secret/gossip gossip="$(consul keygen)"
Key              Value
---              -----
created_time     2022-03-16T18:18:52.389731147Z
deletion_time    n/a
destroyed        false
version          1
```

Define a policy that grants access to the path where you stored the gossip encryption.

```shell-session
$ vault policy write gossip-policy - <<EOF
path "consul/data/secret/gossip" {
  capabilities = ["read"]
}
EOF
```

The command should return an output similar to the following.

<CodeBlockConfig hideClipboard>

```plaintext
Success! Uploaded policy: gossip-policy
```

</CodeBlockConfig>


Then, edit the Consul Helm chart values file to reference the Vault path and key where the gossip key is stored.

```yaml
global:
  gossipEncryption:
    secretName: consul/data/secret/gossip
    secretKey: gossip
```

### Setup PKI secrets engine for TLS and service mesh CA

Vault provides a `pki` secrets engine that you can use to generate TLS certificates. You can use these certificates to configure CAs for TLS encryption for servers, and service mesh leaf certificates for services.

First, if the PKI secrets engine (`pki`) is not already enabled, enable it in Vault.

```shell-session
$ vault secrets enable -path=pki pki
Success! Enabled the pki secrets engine at: pki/
```

Generate the root certificate for Consul CA. This command saves the certificate in a file named `consul_ca.crt`. You will use it to configure environment variables for Consul CLI when you need to interact with your Consul datacenter.

```shell-session
$ vault write -field=certificate pki/root/generate/internal common_name="dc1.consul" | tee consul_ca.crt
```

The command should return an output similar to the following.

<CodeBlockConfig hideClipboard>

```plaintext
-----BEGIN CERTIFICATE-----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-----END CERTIFICATE-----
```

</CodeBlockConfig>

Next, create a role that defines the configuration for the certificates. Make sure to adjust the `allowed_domains` parameter to match your Consul datacenter and domain configuration.

```shell-session
$ vault write pki/roles/consul-server \
    allowed_domains="dc1.consul,consul-server,consul-server.consul,consul-server.consul.svc" \
    allow_subdomains=true \
    allow_bare_domains=true \
    allow_localhost=true \
    generate_lease=true \
    max_ttl="720h"
```

The command should return an output similar to the following.

<CodeBlockConfig hideClipboard>

```plaintext
Success! Data written to: pki/roles/consul-server
```

</CodeBlockConfig>

Next, enable Vault's PKI secrets engine at the `connect-root` path to be used as root CA for Consul service mesh.

```shell-session
$ vault secrets enable -path connect-root pki
Success! Enabled the pki secrets engine at: connect-root/
```

#### Consul server policy

Consul servers need to generate TLS certificates (`pki/issue/consul-server`) and be able to retrieve the CA certificate (`pki/cert/ca`). Create a Vault policy named `consul-server` that grants access to these paths.

```shell-session
$ vault policy write consul-server - <<EOF
path "kv/data/consul-server"
{
  capabilities = ["read"]
}
path "pki/issue/consul-server"
{
  capabilities = ["read","update"]
}
path "pki/cert/ca"
{
  capabilities = ["read"]
}
EOF
```

The command should return an output similar to the following.

<CodeBlockConfig hideClipboard>

```plaintext
Success! Uploaded policy: consul-server
```

</CodeBlockConfig>

#### Consul CA access policy

The policy `ca-policy` grants access to the Consul root CA so that Consul agents and services can verify the certificates used in the service mesh are authentic.

```shell-session
$ vault policy write ca-policy - <<EOF
path "pki/cert/ca" {
  capabilities = ["read"]
}
EOF
```

The command should return an output similar to the following.

<CodeBlockConfig hideClipboard>

```plaintext
Success! Uploaded policy: ca-policy
```

</CodeBlockConfig>

#### Consul service mesh CA policy

The following Vault policy allows Consul to create and manage the root and intermediate PKI secrets engines for generating service mesh certificates. If you would prefer to control PKI secrets engine creation and configuration from Vault rather than delegating full control to Consul, refer to the [Vault CA provider documentation](/consul/docs/connect/ca/vault#vault-managed-pki-paths).

In this example, the `RootPKIPath` is `connect-root` and the `IntermediatePKIPath` is `connect-intermediate-dc1`. Update these values to reflect your Vault environment.

```shell-session
$ vault policy write connect - <<EOF
path "/sys/mounts/connect-root" {
  capabilities = [ "create", "read", "update", "delete", "list" ]
}

path "/sys/mounts/connect-intermediate-dc1" {
  capabilities = [ "create", "read", "update", "delete", "list" ]
}

path "/sys/mounts/connect-intermediate-dc1/tune" {
  capabilities = [ "update" ]
}

path "/connect-root/*" {
  capabilities = [ "create", "read", "update", "delete", "list" ]
}

path "/connect-intermediate-dc1/*" {
  capabilities = [ "create", "read", "update", "delete", "list" ]
}

path "auth/token/renew-self" {
  capabilities = [ "update" ]
}

path "auth/token/lookup-self" {
  capabilities = [ "read" ]
}
EOF
```

The command should return an output similar to the following.

<CodeBlockConfig hideClipboard>

```plaintext
Success! Uploaded policy: connect
```

</CodeBlockConfig>

#### Configure Kubernetes authentication

Vault provides a [Kubernetes authentication](/vault/docs/auth/kubernetes) method that enables clients to authenticate with a Kubernetes Service Account Token. Using the Kubernetes authentication, Vault identifies your Consul agents using their service account and gives them access to the secrets they need to join your Consul datacenter.

Enable the Kubernetes authentication method.

```shell-session
$ vault auth enable kubernetes
Success! Enabled kubernetes auth method at: kubernetes/
```

Vault accepts service tokens from any client from within the Kubernetes cluster. During authentication, Vault verifies that the service account token is valid by querying a configured Kubernetes endpoint. In order to do that, configure the Kubernetes auth method with the JSON web token (JWT) for the service account, the Kubernetes CA certificate, and the Kubernetes host URL.

The chart configures a Kubernetes service account named `vault` that you will use to enable Vault communication with Kubernetes. Retrieve the JSON Web Token (JWT) for the `vault` service account and set it to the `token_reviewer_jwt` environment variable.

```shell-session
$ export token_reviewer_jwt=$(kubectl get secret \
  $(kubectl get serviceaccount vault -o jsonpath='{.secrets[0].name}') \
  -o jsonpath='{ .data.token }' | base64 --decode)
```

Retrieve the Kubernetes certificate authority for the service account and set it to
the `kubernetes_ca_cert` environment variable.

```shell-session
$ export kubernetes_ca_cert=$(kubectl get secret \
  $(kubectl get serviceaccount vault -o jsonpath='{.secrets[0].name}') \
  -o jsonpath='{ .data.ca\.crt }' | base64 --decode)
```

Retrieve the Kubernetes cluster endpoint and set it to the `kubernetes_host_url`
environment variable.

```shell-session
$ export kubernetes_host_url=$(kubectl config view --raw --minify --flatten \
  -o jsonpath='{.clusters[].cluster.server}')
```

Configure the Vault Kubernetes auth method to use the service account token.

```shell-session
$ vault write auth/kubernetes/config \
  token_reviewer_jwt="${token_reviewer_jwt}" \
  kubernetes_host="${kubernetes_host_url}" \
  kubernetes_ca_cert="${kubernetes_ca_cert}"
```

The command should return an output similar to the following.

<CodeBlockConfig hideClipboard>

```plaintext
Success! Data written to: auth/kubernetes/config
```

</CodeBlockConfig>

Verify the configuration for the Kubernetes auth method changed in Vault.

```shell-session
$ vault read auth/kubernetes/config
Key                       Value
---                       -----
disable_iss_validation    true
disable_local_ca_jwt      false
issuer                    n/a
kubernetes_ca_cert        -----BEGIN CERTIFICATE-----
##...
-----END CERTIFICATE-----
kubernetes_host           https://66606BBB5881313742471313182BBB90999.gr7.us-east-1.eks.amazonaws.com
pem_keys                  []
```

You have configured the Kubernetes authentication method and defined the different policies to grant access to the resources. You can now define the associations between Kubernetes service accounts and Vault policies.

You will create Vault roles to associate the necessary policies to Consul server agents, Consul client agents, and Consul CA certificate access.

#### Configure Consul server role for Kubernetes authentication in Vault

Create a Kubernetes authentication role in Vault named `consul-server` that connects the Kubernetes service account (`consul-server`) and namespace (`consul`) with the Vault policies: `gossip-policy`,`consul-server` and `connect`. The tokens returned after authentication are valid for 24 hours.

<Tabs>

<Tab heading="Consul OSS" group="oss">

```shell-session
$ vault write auth/kubernetes/role/consul-server \
    bound_service_account_names=consul-server \
    bound_service_account_namespaces=consul \
    policies="gossip-policy,consul-server,connect" \
    ttl=24h
```

The command should return an output similar to the following.

<CodeBlockConfig hideClipboard>

```plaintext
Success! Data written to: auth/kubernetes/role/consul-server
```

</CodeBlockConfig>

</Tab>

<Tab heading="Consul Enterprise" group="enterprise">

When using Consul Enterprise, you must also associate the role with the `enterpriselicense-policy`.

```shell-session
$ vault write auth/kubernetes/role/consul-server \
    bound_service_account_names=consul-server \
    bound_service_account_namespaces=consul \
    policies="gossip-policy,consul-server,connect,enterpriselicense-policy" \
    ttl=24h
```

The command should return an output similar to the following.

<CodeBlockConfig hideClipboard>

```plaintext
Success! Data written to: auth/kubernetes/role/consul-server
```

</CodeBlockConfig>

</Tab>

</Tabs>

#### Configure Consul client role for Kubernetes authentication in Vault

Create a Kubernetes authentication role in Vault named `consul-client` that connects the Kubernetes service account (`consul-client`) and namespace (`consul`) with the Vault policies: `gossip-policy` and `ca-policy`. The tokens returned after authentication are valid for 24 hours.

<Tabs>

<Tab heading="Consul OSS" group="oss">

```shell-session
$ vault write auth/kubernetes/role/consul-client \
    bound_service_account_names=consul-client \
    bound_service_account_namespaces=consul \
    policies="gossip-policy,ca-policy" \
    ttl=24h
```

The command should return an output similar to the following.

<CodeBlockConfig hideClipboard>

```plaintext
Success! Data written to: auth/kubernetes/role/consul-client
```

</CodeBlockConfig>

</Tab>

<Tab heading="Consul Enterprise" group="enterprise">

When using Consul Enterprise, you must also associate the role with the `enterpriselicense-policy`.

```shell-session
$ vault write auth/kubernetes/role/consul-client \
    bound_service_account_names=consul-client \
    bound_service_account_namespaces=consul \
    policies="gossip-policy,ca-policy,enterpriselicense-policy" \
    ttl=24h
```

The command should return an output similar to the following.

<CodeBlockConfig hideClipboard>

```plaintext
Success! Data written to: auth/kubernetes/role/consul-client
```

</CodeBlockConfig>

</Tab>

</Tabs>

#### Configure Consul CA root certificate access in Vault

Create a Kubernetes authentication role in Vault named `consul-ca` that connects all Kubernetes service account in namespace (`consul`) with the Vault policy `ca-policy`. The tokens returned after authentication are valid for 1 hour.

```shell-session
$ vault write auth/kubernetes/role/consul-ca \
    bound_service_account_names="*" \
    bound_service_account_namespaces=consul \
    policies=ca-policy \
    ttl=1h
```

The command should return an output similar to the following.

<CodeBlockConfig hideClipboard>

```plaintext
Success! Data written to: auth/kubernetes/role/consul-ca
```

</CodeBlockConfig>

The following diagram provides a summary of the configuration you created.

![Permissions for Vault as Consul secrets manager](/img/kubernetes-diagram-permissions-vault-as-secrets-manager.png)

#### Configure Consul Helm chart to use Vault as secrets manager

Finally, edit the Consul Helm chart values file to reference the Vault path and key where the PKI secrets engine is configured.

<CodeBlockConfig filename="consul-values.yaml" hideClipboard>

```yaml
global:
  ##...
  secretsBackend:
    vault:
      enabled: true
      consulServerRole: consul-server
      consulClientRole: consul-client
      consulCARole: consul-ca
      connectCA:
        address: $VAULT_PRIVATE_ADDR
        rootPKIPath: connect-root/
        intermediatePKIPath: connect-intermediate-dc1/
        additionalConfig: "{\"connect\": [{ \"ca_config\": [{ \"namespace\": \"admin\"}]}]}"
      agentAnnotations: |
        "vault.hashicorp.com/namespace": "admin"
##...
```

</CodeBlockConfig>

## Next steps

You can read more on Consul Helm chart configuration value, to tune your Consul installation at [Helm Chart Configuration](/consul/docs/reference/k8s/helm).

To learn more on Vault Kubernetes authentication check [Vault Agent with Kubernetes](/vault/tutorials/kubernetes/agent-kubernetes) and [HCP Vault Dedicated with Amazon Elastic Kubernetes Service](/vault/tutorials/cloud-ops/vault-eks).

Commit message:

omit phrase In this example

content/consul/v1.21.x/content/docs/integrate/vault/k8s.mdx, after:

---
layout: docs
page_title: Use Vault for secrets management with Consul on Kubernetes
description: >-
  Secure Consul on Kubernetes using gossip encryption, TLS certificates, and service mesh certificates using Vault as secrets management.
---

# Use Vault for secrets management with Consul on Kubernetes

This page describes how to securely deploy Consul on Kubernetes using Vault as a secrets manager. Using Vault, you can securely store and centrally manage the secrets you will need to provide to your Consul agents. These include, but are not limited to, gossip encryption keys, TLS certificates, service mesh certificates. Furthermore, you can also [store and manage your Consul Enterprise license](/consul/docs/deploy/server/k8s/vault/data/enterprise-license).

The following architecture diagram depicts the desired outcome.

![Architectural diagram for Vault as Consul secrets manager](/img/kubernetes-diagram-vault-as-secrets-manager.png)


## Workflow

The following steps describe specific tasks for Vault secrets management for Consul on Kubernetes:

1. Store enterprise license in Vault
1. Store Consul gossip key in Vault
1. Setup PKI secrets engine for TLS and service mesh CA
1. Authenticate using a Kubernetes service account using the Vault Kubernetes authentication engine

<Note>

 This article assumes that you are using Consul's default value for a datacenter name `dc1`, and the default domain `consul`. If you have deployed Consul with different datacenter and domain values, adjust the related values in the following example commands accordingly.

</Note>

### Prerequisites

First, enable a key/value v2 secrets engine at the `consul/` path.

```shell-session
$ vault secrets enable -path=consul kv-v2
Success! Enabled the kv-v2 secrets engine at: consul/
```

### Store enterprise license in Vault

You can safely store the license for Consul enterprise in Vault. This allows Consul agents to retrieve the license from Vault during initialization. Store the license from the `consul.hclic` local file in Vault using the `consul/` instance of the `kv` secrets engine.

```shell-session
$ vault kv put consul/secret/enterpriselicense key="$(cat ./consul.hclic)"
Key                Value
---                -----
created_time       2022-03-22T16:25:14.073090874Z
custom_metadata    <nil>
deletion_time      n/a
destroyed          false
version            1
```

When using Consul Enterprise, you must distribute the license to your Consul nodes.
After you just stored the Consul license in the Vault `kv` secrets engine, you will need to define a policy that grants access to the path where you stored the license.

```shell-session
$ vault policy write enterpriselicense-policy - <<EOF
path "consul/data/secret/enterpriselicense" {
  capabilities = ["read"]
}
EOF
```

The command should return an output similar to the following.

<CodeBlockConfig hideClipboard>

```plaintext
Success! Uploaded policy: enterpriselicense-policy
```

</CodeBlockConfig>

Finally, edit the Consul Helm chart values file to reference the Vault path and key where the enterprise license is stored.

```yaml
global:
##...
  enterpriseLicense:
    secretName: 'consul/data/secret/enterpriselicense'
    secretKey: 'key'
##...
```

### Store Consul gossip key in Vault

First, generate and store the encryption key in Vault.

```shell-session
$ vault kv put consul/secret/gossip gossip="$(consul keygen)"
Key              Value
---              -----
created_time     2022-03-16T18:18:52.389731147Z
deletion_time    n/a
destroyed        false
version          1
```

Define a policy that grants access to the path where you stored the gossip encryption.

```shell-session
$ vault policy write gossip-policy - <<EOF
path "consul/data/secret/gossip" {
  capabilities = ["read"]
}
EOF
```

The command should return an output similar to the following.

<CodeBlockConfig hideClipboard>

```plaintext
Success! Uploaded policy: gossip-policy
```

</CodeBlockConfig>


Then, edit the Consul Helm chart values file to reference the Vault path and key where the gossip key is stored.

```yaml
global:
  gossipEncryption:
    secretName: consul/data/secret/gossip
    secretKey: gossip
```

### Setup PKI secrets engine for TLS and service mesh CA

Vault provides a `pki` secrets engine that you can use to generate TLS certificates. You can use these certificates to configure CAs for TLS encryption for servers, and service mesh leaf certificates for services.

First, if the PKI secrets engine (`pki`) is not already enabled, enable it in Vault.

```shell-session
$ vault secrets enable -path=pki pki
Success! Enabled the pki secrets engine at: pki/
```

Generate the root certificate for Consul CA. This command saves the certificate in a file named `consul_ca.crt`. You will use it to configure environment variables for Consul CLI when you need to interact with your Consul datacenter.

```shell-session
$ vault write -field=certificate pki/root/generate/internal common_name="dc1.consul" | tee consul_ca.crt
```

The command should return an output similar to the following.

<CodeBlockConfig hideClipboard>

```plaintext
-----BEGIN CERTIFICATE-----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-----END CERTIFICATE-----
```

</CodeBlockConfig>

Next, create a role that defines the configuration for the certificates. Make sure to adjust the `allowed_domains` parameter to match your Consul datacenter and domain configuration.

```shell-session
$ vault write pki/roles/consul-server \
    allowed_domains="dc1.consul,consul-server,consul-server.consul,consul-server.consul.svc" \
    allow_subdomains=true \
    allow_bare_domains=true \
    allow_localhost=true \
    generate_lease=true \
    max_ttl="720h"
```

The command should return an output similar to the following.

<CodeBlockConfig hideClipboard>

```plaintext
Success! Data written to: pki/roles/consul-server
```

</CodeBlockConfig>

Next, enable Vault's PKI secrets engine at the `connect-root` path to be used as root CA for Consul service mesh.

```shell-session
$ vault secrets enable -path connect-root pki
Success! Enabled the pki secrets engine at: connect-root/
```

#### Consul server policy

Consul servers need to generate TLS certificates (`pki/issue/consul-server`) and be able to retrieve the CA certificate (`pki/cert/ca`). Create a Vault policy named `consul-server` that grants access to these paths.

```shell-session
$ vault policy write consul-server - <<EOF
path "kv/data/consul-server"
{
  capabilities = ["read"]
}
path "pki/issue/consul-server"
{
  capabilities = ["read","update"]
}
path "pki/cert/ca"
{
  capabilities = ["read"]
}
EOF
```

The command should return an output similar to the following.

<CodeBlockConfig hideClipboard>

```plaintext
Success! Uploaded policy: consul-server
```

</CodeBlockConfig>

#### Consul CA access policy

The policy `ca-policy` grants access to the Consul root CA so that Consul agents and services can verify the certificates used in the service mesh are authentic.

```shell-session
$ vault policy write ca-policy - <<EOF
path "pki/cert/ca" {
  capabilities = ["read"]
}
EOF
```

The command should return an output similar to the following.

<CodeBlockConfig hideClipboard>

```plaintext
Success! Uploaded policy: ca-policy
```

</CodeBlockConfig>

#### Consul service mesh CA policy

The following Vault policy allows Consul to create and manage the root and intermediate PKI secrets engines for generating service mesh certificates. If you would prefer to control PKI secrets engine creation and configuration from Vault rather than delegating full control to Consul, refer to the [Vault CA provider documentation](/consul/docs/connect/ca/vault#vault-managed-pki-paths).

In this deployment, the `RootPKIPath` is `connect-root` and the `IntermediatePKIPath` is `connect-intermediate-dc1`. Make sure to update these values to reflect your specific Vault environment.

```shell-session
$ vault policy write connect - <<EOF
path "/sys/mounts/connect-root" {
  capabilities = [ "create", "read", "update", "delete", "list" ]
}

path "/sys/mounts/connect-intermediate-dc1" {
  capabilities = [ "create", "read", "update", "delete", "list" ]
}

path "/sys/mounts/connect-intermediate-dc1/tune" {
  capabilities = [ "update" ]
}

path "/connect-root/*" {
  capabilities = [ "create", "read", "update", "delete", "list" ]
}

path "/connect-intermediate-dc1/*" {
  capabilities = [ "create", "read", "update", "delete", "list" ]
}

path "auth/token/renew-self" {
  capabilities = [ "update" ]
}

path "auth/token/lookup-self" {
  capabilities = [ "read" ]
}
EOF
```

The command should return an output similar to the following.

<CodeBlockConfig hideClipboard>

```plaintext
Success! Uploaded policy: connect
```

</CodeBlockConfig>

#### Configure Kubernetes authentication

Vault provides a [Kubernetes authentication](/vault/docs/auth/kubernetes) method that enables clients to authenticate with a Kubernetes Service Account Token. Using the Kubernetes authentication, Vault identifies your Consul agents using their service account and gives them access to the secrets they need to join your Consul datacenter.

Enable the Kubernetes authentication method.

```shell-session
$ vault auth enable kubernetes
Success! Enabled kubernetes auth method at: kubernetes/
```

Next, you need to define the parameters for this Kubernetes auth method  - a JSON web token (JWT) for the service account, a Kubernetes CA certificate, and a Kubernetes host URL. The Helm chart configures a Kubernetes service account named `vault` that you will use to enable Vault communication with Kubernetes. Retrieve the JSON Web Token (JWT) for the `vault` service account and set it to the `token_reviewer_jwt` environment variable.

```shell-session
$ export token_reviewer_jwt=$(kubectl get secret \
  $(kubectl get serviceaccount vault -o jsonpath='{.secrets[0].name}') \
  -o jsonpath='{ .data.token }' | base64 --decode)
```

Retrieve the Kubernetes certificate authority for the service account and set it to
the `kubernetes_ca_cert` environment variable.

```shell-session
$ export kubernetes_ca_cert=$(kubectl get secret \
  $(kubectl get serviceaccount vault -o jsonpath='{.secrets[0].name}') \
  -o jsonpath='{ .data.ca\.crt }' | base64 --decode)
```

Retrieve the Kubernetes cluster endpoint and set it to the `kubernetes_host_url`
environment variable.

```shell-session
$ export kubernetes_host_url=$(kubectl config view --raw --minify --flatten \
  -o jsonpath='{.clusters[].cluster.server}')
```

Configure the Vault Kubernetes auth method to use the service account token.

```shell-session
$ vault write auth/kubernetes/config \
  token_reviewer_jwt="${token_reviewer_jwt}" \
  kubernetes_host="${kubernetes_host_url}" \
  kubernetes_ca_cert="${kubernetes_ca_cert}"
```

The command should return an output similar to the following.

<CodeBlockConfig hideClipboard>

```plaintext
Success! Data written to: auth/kubernetes/config
```

</CodeBlockConfig>

Verify the configuration for the Kubernetes auth method changed in Vault.

```shell-session
$ vault read auth/kubernetes/config
Key                       Value
---                       -----
disable_iss_validation    true
disable_local_ca_jwt      false
issuer                    n/a
kubernetes_ca_cert        -----BEGIN CERTIFICATE-----
##...
-----END CERTIFICATE-----
kubernetes_host           https://66606BBB5881313742471313182BBB90999.gr7.us-east-1.eks.amazonaws.com
pem_keys                  []
```

You have configured the Kubernetes authentication method and defined the different policies to grant access to the resources. You can now define the associations between Kubernetes service accounts and Vault policies.

You will create Vault roles to associate the necessary policies to Consul server agents, Consul client agents, and Consul CA certificate access.

#### Configure Consul server role for Kubernetes authentication in Vault

Create a Kubernetes authentication role in Vault named `consul-server` that connects the Kubernetes service account (`consul-server`) and namespace (`consul`) with the Vault policies: `gossip-policy`,`consul-server` and `connect`. The tokens returned after authentication are valid for 24 hours.

<Tabs>

<Tab heading="Consul OSS" group="oss">

```shell-session
$ vault write auth/kubernetes/role/consul-server \
    bound_service_account_names=consul-server \
    bound_service_account_namespaces=consul \
    policies="gossip-policy,consul-server,connect" \
    ttl=24h
```

The command should return an output similar to the following.

<CodeBlockConfig hideClipboard>

```plaintext
Success! Data written to: auth/kubernetes/role/consul-server
```

</CodeBlockConfig>

</Tab>

<Tab heading="Consul Enterprise" group="enterprise">

When using Consul Enterprise, you must also associate the role with the `enterpriselicense-policy`.

```shell-session
$ vault write auth/kubernetes/role/consul-server \
    bound_service_account_names=consul-server \
    bound_service_account_namespaces=consul \
    policies="gossip-policy,consul-server,connect,enterpriselicense-policy" \
    ttl=24h
```

The command should return an output similar to the following.

<CodeBlockConfig hideClipboard>

```plaintext
Success! Data written to: auth/kubernetes/role/consul-server
```

</CodeBlockConfig>

</Tab>

</Tabs>

#### Configure Consul client role for Kubernetes authentication in Vault

Create a Kubernetes authentication role in Vault named `consul-client` that connects the Kubernetes service account (`consul-client`) and namespace (`consul`) with the Vault policies: `gossip-policy` and `ca-policy`. The tokens returned after authentication are valid for 24 hours.

<Tabs>

<Tab heading="Consul OSS" group="oss">

```shell-session
$ vault write auth/kubernetes/role/consul-client \
    bound_service_account_names=consul-client \
    bound_service_account_namespaces=consul \
    policies="gossip-policy,ca-policy" \
    ttl=24h
```

The command should return an output similar to the following.

<CodeBlockConfig hideClipboard>

```plaintext
Success! Data written to: auth/kubernetes/role/consul-client
```

</CodeBlockConfig>

</Tab>

<Tab heading="Consul Enterprise" group="enterprise">

When using Consul Enterprise, you must also associate the role with the `enterpriselicense-policy`.

```shell-session
$ vault write auth/kubernetes/role/consul-client \
    bound_service_account_names=consul-client \
    bound_service_account_namespaces=consul \
    policies="gossip-policy,ca-policy,enterpriselicense-policy" \
    ttl=24h
```

The command should return an output similar to the following.

<CodeBlockConfig hideClipboard>

```plaintext
Success! Data written to: auth/kubernetes/role/consul-client
```

</CodeBlockConfig>

</Tab>

</Tabs>

#### Configure Consul CA root certificate access in Vault

Create a Kubernetes authentication role in Vault named `consul-ca` that connects all Kubernetes service account in namespace (`consul`) with the Vault policy `ca-policy`. The tokens returned after authentication are valid for 1 hour.

```shell-session
$ vault write auth/kubernetes/role/consul-ca \
    bound_service_account_names="*" \
    bound_service_account_namespaces=consul \
    policies=ca-policy \
    ttl=1h
```

The command should return an output similar to the following.

<CodeBlockConfig hideClipboard>

```plaintext
Success! Data written to: auth/kubernetes/role/consul-ca
```

</CodeBlockConfig>

The following diagram provides a summary of the configuration you created.

![Permissions for Vault as Consul secrets manager](/img/kubernetes-diagram-permissions-vault-as-secrets-manager.png)

#### Configure Consul Helm chart to use Vault as secrets manager

Finally, edit the Consul Helm chart values file to reference the Vault path and key where the PKI secrets engine is configured.

<CodeBlockConfig filename="consul-values.yaml" hideClipboard>

```yaml
global:
  ##...
  secretsBackend:
    vault:
      enabled: true
      consulServerRole: consul-server
      consulClientRole: consul-client
      consulCARole: consul-ca
      connectCA:
        address: $VAULT_PRIVATE_ADDR
        rootPKIPath: connect-root/
        intermediatePKIPath: connect-intermediate-dc1/
        additionalConfig: "{\"connect\": [{ \"ca_config\": [{ \"namespace\": \"admin\"}]}]}"
      agentAnnotations: |
        "vault.hashicorp.com/namespace": "admin"
##...
```

</CodeBlockConfig>

## Next steps

You can read more on Consul Helm chart configuration value, to tune your Consul installation at [Helm Chart Configuration](/consul/docs/reference/k8s/helm).

To learn more on Vault Kubernetes authentication check [Vault Agent with Kubernetes](/vault/tutorials/kubernetes/agent-kubernetes) and [HCP Vault Dedicated with Amazon Elastic Kubernetes Service](/vault/tutorials/cloud-ops/vault-eks).
