content/hcp-docs/content/docs/vault-radar/get-started/add-data-sources/bitbucket.mdx, before:

---
page_title: Add a data source - Bitbucket
description: >-
  Add Bitbucket as a data source for Vault Radar.
---

# Add a data source - Bitbucket

Vault Radar allows you to connect to any workspace on [Bitbucket
Cloud](#add-bitbucket-cloud) and any project on [Bitbucket
Server](#add-bitbucket-server).

## Add Bitbucket Cloud

### Prerequisites

- Workspace ID
    - Navigate to your Bitbucket Cloud workspace
    - This is in the workspace URL
        - For example, in `https://bitbucket.org/my-workspace/workspace/overview`, the workspace ID is `my-workspace`
    - You can also find this by clicking the gear icon in the upper right corner
      "Settings" (take the "Workspace ID", not the "Workspace name")

    ![Workspace Settings](/img/docs/vault-radar/bitbucket-cloud-workspace-settings.png)

- Token creator email address
- [API token with the right set of scopes](https://support.atlassian.com/atlassian-account/docs/manage-api-tokens-for-your-atlassian-account/)
    - read:account
    - read:name
    - read:project:bitbucket
    - read:pullrequest:bitbucket
    - read:repository:bitbucket
    - read:user:bitbucket
    - read:webhook:bitbucket
    - read:workspace:bitbucket
    - write:pullrequest:bitbucket
    - write:webhook:bitbucket

## Create a connection with Bitbucket Cloud

1. Select **Settings/Data Sources**.

1. Click on the **Bitbucket Cloud** button.

1. Enter the workspace in the **Workspace ID** text field.

1. Enter the email address of the Bitbucket Cloud user that created the API token in the **Enter your Bitbucket token creator email** text field.

1. Click **Next**.

## Add Bitbucket Server

### Prerequisites

- Domain name for your instance
- Project key
- Bitbucket account name
- HTTP access token (with the right set of permissions)

## Create a connection with Bitbucket Server

1. Select **Settings/Data Sources**.

1. Click on the **Bitbucket Server** button.

1. Enter the project key in the **Project key** text field.

1. Enter the Bitbucket account name and HTTP access token value.

  ![Configure Bitbucket Server](/img/docs/vault-radar/bitbucket-server-http-access-token.png)

1. Click **Next**.

## Add repositories to Vault Radar

Once you establish a connection, select which repositories you
want to install by selecting a group or all.

<Note>

Vault Radar has a limit of 5000 repositories per connection. If you have more
then 5000 repositories, Vault Radar will select the 5000 repositories with the
most recent activity.

</Note>

## Assign a group to a resource

@include 'vault-radar/add-group-to-resource.mdx'

Commit message:

Specify where to enter the API token value

content/hcp-docs/content/docs/vault-radar/get-started/add-data-sources/bitbucket.mdx, after:

---
page_title: Add a data source - Bitbucket
description: >-
  Add Bitbucket as a data source for Vault Radar.
---

# Add a data source - Bitbucket

Vault Radar allows you to connect to any workspace on [Bitbucket
Cloud](#add-bitbucket-cloud) and any project on [Bitbucket
Server](#add-bitbucket-server).

## Add Bitbucket Cloud

### Prerequisites

- Workspace ID
    - Navigate to your Bitbucket Cloud workspace
    - This is in the workspace URL
        - For example, in `https://bitbucket.org/my-workspace/workspace/overview`, the workspace ID is `my-workspace`
    - You can also find this by clicking the gear icon in the upper right corner
      "Settings" (take the "Workspace ID", not the "Workspace name")

    ![Workspace Settings](/img/docs/vault-radar/bitbucket-cloud-workspace-settings.png)

- Token creator email address
- [API token with the right set of scopes](https://support.atlassian.com/atlassian-account/docs/manage-api-tokens-for-your-atlassian-account/)
    - read:account
    - read:name
    - read:project:bitbucket
    - read:pullrequest:bitbucket
    - read:repository:bitbucket
    - read:user:bitbucket
    - read:webhook:bitbucket
    - read:workspace:bitbucket
    - write:pullrequest:bitbucket
    - write:webhook:bitbucket

## Create a connection with Bitbucket Cloud

1. Select **Settings/Data Sources**.

1. Click on the **Bitbucket Cloud** button.

1. Enter the workspace in the **Workspace ID** text field.

1. Enter the email address of the Bitbucket Cloud user that created the API token in the **Enter your Bitbucket token creator email** text field.

1. Enter the API token value in the **Enter your Bitbucket API token** text field.

1. Click **Next**.

## Add Bitbucket Server

### Prerequisites

- Domain name for your instance
- Project key
- Bitbucket account name
- HTTP access token (with the right set of permissions)

## Create a connection with Bitbucket Server

1. Select **Settings/Data Sources**.

1. Click on the **Bitbucket Server** button.

1. Enter the project key in the **Project key** text field.

1. Enter the Bitbucket account name and HTTP access token value.

  ![Configure Bitbucket Server](/img/docs/vault-radar/bitbucket-server-http-access-token.png)

1. Click **Next**.

## Add repositories to Vault Radar

Once you establish a connection, select which repositories you
want to install by selecting a group or all.

<Note>

Vault Radar has a limit of 5000 repositories per connection. If you have more
then 5000 repositories, Vault Radar will select the 5000 repositories with the
most recent activity.

</Note>

## Assign a group to a resource

@include 'vault-radar/add-group-to-resource.mdx'
