content/nomad/v1.8.x/content/docs/configuration/reporting.mdx, before:

---
layout: docs
page_title: reporting Block - Agent Configuration
description: >-
  The "reporting" block configures the Nomad agents automated license
  utilization reporting.
---

# `reporting` Block

<Placement groups={['reporting']} />

The `reporting` block configures the Nomad agents automated license utilization
reporting. This is an Enterprise-only feature and the configuration applies to
agents running with [server mode enabled][server_mode_enabled].

For more information about automated license utilization reporting, please see the
[guide][automated_license_utilization_reporting].

```hcl
reporting {
    license {
      enabled = true
    }
}
```

## `reporting` Parameters

- `license` <code>([license](#license-block): default)</code> - Configures
  automated license utilization reporting.

## `license` Block

- `enabled` `(bool: true)` - Specifies whether automated license utilization
  reporting should be enabled and run.

[server_mode_enabled]: /nomad/docs/configuration/server#enabled
[automated_license_utilization_reporting]: /nomad/docs/enterprise/license/utilization-reporting

Commit message:

fix: correct nomad docs v1.7.x through v1.9.x (#1381)
* fix: correct nomad docs v1.7.x through v1.9.x

* re-compress images

content/nomad/v1.8.x/content/docs/configuration/reporting.mdx, after:

---
layout: docs
page_title: reporting Block - Agent Configuration
description: >-
  The "reporting" block configures the Nomad agents automated license
  utilization reporting.
---

# `reporting` Block

<Placement groups={['reporting']} />

The `reporting` block configures the Nomad agents automated license utilization
reporting. This is an Enterprise-only feature and the configuration applies to
agents running with [server mode enabled][server_mode_enabled].

For more information about automated license utilization reporting, please see the
[guide][automated_license_utilization_reporting].

```hcl
reporting {
  license {
    enabled = true
  }

  snapshot_retention_time = "9600h"
}
```

## `reporting` Parameters

- `license` <code>([license](#license-block): default)</code> - Configures
  automated license utilization reporting.

- `snapshot_retention_time` `(string: "9600h")` - Configures the maximum amount
  of time that Nomad retains a utilization reporting snapshot in the Nomad
  state store. You can export these snapshots with the [`nomad operator
  utilization`][] command.

- `disable_product_usage_reporting` `(bool: false)` - Specifies whether detailed
  product usage metrics should be disabled. Review the
  [full list of metrics](/nomad/docs/enterprise/license/utilization-reporting#full-list-of-metrics)
  before disabling this option, and share any concerns you may have
  with your account manager.

## `license` Block

- `enabled` `(bool: true)` - Specifies whether automated license utilization
  reporting should be enabled and run. License utilization metrics are still
  gathered for offline reporting.

[server_mode_enabled]: /nomad/docs/configuration/server#enabled
[automated_license_utilization_reporting]: /nomad/docs/enterprise/license/utilization-reporting
[`nomad operator utilization`]: /nomad/docs/commands/operator/utilization
