content/vault/v1.21.x/content/api-docs/secret/databases/mssql.mdx, before:

---
layout: api
page_title: MSSQL - Database - Secrets Engines - HTTP API
description: >-
  The MSSQL plugin for Vault's database secrets engine generates database
  credentials to access MSSQL servers.
---

# MSSQL database plugin HTTP API

The MSSQL database plugin is one of the supported plugins for the database
secrets engine. This plugin generates database credentials dynamically based on
configured roles for the MSSQL database.

## Configure connection

In addition to the parameters defined by the [Database
Backend](/vault/api-docs/secret/databases#configure-connection), this plugin
has a number of parameters to further configure a connection.

| Method | Path                     |
| :----- | :----------------------- |
| `POST` | `/database/config/:name` |

### Parameters

- `connection_url` `(string: <required>)` - Specifies the MSSQL DSN. This field
  can be templated and supports passing the username and password
  parameters in the following format {{field_name}}. A templated connection URL is
  required when using root credential rotation.

- `max_open_connections` `(int: 4)` - Specifies the maximum number of open
  connections to the database.

- `max_idle_connections` `(int: 0)` - Specifies the maximum number of idle
  connections to the database. A zero uses the value of `max_open_connections`
  and a negative value disables idle connections. If larger than
  `max_open_connections` it will be reduced to be equal.

- `max_connection_lifetime` `(string: "0s")` - Specifies the maximum amount of
  time a connection may be reused. If <= `0s` connections are reused forever.

- `username` `(string: "")` - The root credential username used in the connection URL.

- `password` `(string: "")` - The root credential password used in the connection URL.

- `username_template` `(string)` - [Template](/vault/docs/concepts/username-templating) describing how
  dynamic usernames are generated.

- `contained_db` `(bool: false)` - If set, specifies that the connection being configured is to a
  [Contained Database](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/sql/relational-databases/databases/contained-databases?view=sql-server-ver15),
  like AzureSQL.

- `disable_escaping` `(boolean: false)` - Turns off the escaping of special characters inside of the username
  and password fields. See the [databases secrets engine docs](/vault/docs/secrets/databases#disable-character-escaping)
  for more information. Defaults to `false`.

<details>
<summary><b>Default Username Template</b></summary>

```
{{ printf "v-%s-%s-%s-%s" (.DisplayName | truncate 20) (.RoleName | truncate 20) (random 20) (unix_time) | truncate 128 }}
```

<details>
  <summary><b>Example Usernames:</b></summary>

| Example       |                                                      |
| ------------- | ---------------------------------------------------- |
| `DisplayName` | `token`                                              |
| `RoleName`    | `myrolename`                                         |
| Username      | `v-token-myrolename-jNFRlKsZZMxJEx60o66i-1614294836` |

| Example       |                                                                               |
| ------------- | ----------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| `DisplayName` | `amuchlonger_dispname`                                                        |
| `RoleName`    | `role-name-with-dashes`                                                       |
| Username      | `v-amuchlonger_dispname-role-name-with-dashe-LUHU9xqm6YNisikA3iCQ-1614294836` |

</details>
</details>

### Sample payload

```json
{
  "plugin_name": "mssql-database-plugin",
  "allowed_roles": "readonly",
  "connection_url": "sqlserver://{{username}}:{{password}}@localhost:1433",
  "max_open_connections": 5,
  "max_connection_lifetime": "5s",
  "username": "sa",
  "password": "yourStrong(!)Password"
}
```

### Sample request

```shell-session
$ curl \
    --header "X-Vault-Token: ..." \
    --request POST \
    --data @payload.json \
    http://127.0.0.1:8200/v1/database/config/mssql
```

## Statements

Statements are configured during role creation and are used by the plugin to
determine what is sent to the database on user creation, renewing, and
revocation. For more information on configuring roles see the [Role
API](/vault/api-docs/secret/databases#create-role) in the database secrets engine docs.

### Parameters

The following are the statements used by this plugin. If not mentioned in this
list the plugin does not support that statement type.

- `creation_statements` `(list: <required>)` – Specifies the database
  statements executed to create and configure a user. Must be a
  semicolon-separated string, a base64-encoded semicolon-separated string, a
  serialized JSON string array, or a base64-encoded serialized JSON string
  array. The `{{name}}` and `{{password}}` values will be substituted.

- `revocation_statements` `(list: [])` – Specifies the database statements to
  be executed to revoke a user. Must be a semicolon-separated string, a
  base64-encoded semicolon-separated string, a serialized JSON string array, or
  a base64-encoded serialized JSON string array. The `{{name}}` value will be
  substituted. If not provided defaults to a generic drop user statement.

- `rotation_statements` `(list: [])` – Specifies the database statements to be
  executed to rotate the password for a given username. Must be a
  semicolon-separated string, a base64-encoded semicolon-separated string, a
  serialized JSON string array, or a base64-encoded serialized JSON string
  array. The `{{name}}` and `{{password}}` values will be substituted. The
  generated password will be a random alphanumeric 20 character string.

Commit message:

feat: add warning about deadlock potential with MSSQL
In MSSQL, modifying a role acquires a lock that prevents even read
operations, which can lead to temporary deadlocks. It is very easy for
users to be blindsided by these deadlocks, since with dynamic credential
creation such a modification can occur at any time. Unless a user is a
database expert, they will not be aware of this issue.

See also https://ci.xovis.com/job/Cirrus/job/Suite-pr-cleanup/.

content/vault/v1.21.x/content/api-docs/secret/databases/mssql.mdx, after:

---
layout: api
page_title: MSSQL - Database - Secrets Engines - HTTP API
description: >-
  The MSSQL plugin for Vault's database secrets engine generates database
  credentials to access MSSQL servers.
---

# MSSQL database plugin HTTP API

The MSSQL database plugin is one of the supported plugins for the database
secrets engine. This plugin generates database credentials dynamically based on
configured roles for the MSSQL database.

## Configure connection

In addition to the parameters defined by the [Database
Backend](/vault/api-docs/secret/databases#configure-connection), this plugin
has a number of parameters to further configure a connection.

| Method | Path                     |
| :----- | :----------------------- |
| `POST` | `/database/config/:name` |

### Parameters

- `connection_url` `(string: <required>)` - Specifies the MSSQL DSN. This field
  can be templated and supports passing the username and password
  parameters in the following format {{field_name}}. A templated connection URL is
  required when using root credential rotation.

- `max_open_connections` `(int: 4)` - Specifies the maximum number of open
  connections to the database.

- `max_idle_connections` `(int: 0)` - Specifies the maximum number of idle
  connections to the database. A zero uses the value of `max_open_connections`
  and a negative value disables idle connections. If larger than
  `max_open_connections` it will be reduced to be equal.

- `max_connection_lifetime` `(string: "0s")` - Specifies the maximum amount of
  time a connection may be reused. If <= `0s` connections are reused forever.

- `username` `(string: "")` - The root credential username used in the connection URL.

- `password` `(string: "")` - The root credential password used in the connection URL.

- `username_template` `(string)` - [Template](/vault/docs/concepts/username-templating) describing how
  dynamic usernames are generated.

- `contained_db` `(bool: false)` - If set, specifies that the connection being configured is to a
  [Contained Database](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/sql/relational-databases/databases/contained-databases?view=sql-server-ver15),
  like AzureSQL.

- `disable_escaping` `(boolean: false)` - Turns off the escaping of special characters inside of the username
  and password fields. See the [databases secrets engine docs](/vault/docs/secrets/databases#disable-character-escaping)
  for more information. Defaults to `false`.

<details>
<summary><b>Default Username Template</b></summary>

```
{{ printf "v-%s-%s-%s-%s" (.DisplayName | truncate 20) (.RoleName | truncate 20) (random 20) (unix_time) | truncate 128 }}
```

<details>
  <summary><b>Example Usernames:</b></summary>

| Example       |                                                      |
| ------------- | ---------------------------------------------------- |
| `DisplayName` | `token`                                              |
| `RoleName`    | `myrolename`                                         |
| Username      | `v-token-myrolename-jNFRlKsZZMxJEx60o66i-1614294836` |

| Example       |                                                                               |
| ------------- | ----------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| `DisplayName` | `amuchlonger_dispname`                                                        |
| `RoleName`    | `role-name-with-dashes`                                                       |
| Username      | `v-amuchlonger_dispname-role-name-with-dashe-LUHU9xqm6YNisikA3iCQ-1614294836` |

</details>
</details>

### Sample payload

```json
{
  "plugin_name": "mssql-database-plugin",
  "allowed_roles": "readonly",
  "connection_url": "sqlserver://{{username}}:{{password}}@localhost:1433",
  "max_open_connections": 5,
  "max_connection_lifetime": "5s",
  "username": "sa",
  "password": "yourStrong(!)Password"
}
```

### Sample request

```shell-session
$ curl \
    --header "X-Vault-Token: ..." \
    --request POST \
    --data @payload.json \
    http://127.0.0.1:8200/v1/database/config/mssql
```

## Statements

Statements are configured during role creation and are used by the plugin to
determine what is sent to the database on user creation, renewing, and
revocation. For more information on configuring roles see the [Role
API](/vault/api-docs/secret/databases#create-role) in the database secrets engine docs.

### Parameters

The following are the statements used by this plugin. If not mentioned in this
list the plugin does not support that statement type.

- `creation_statements` `(list: <required>)` – Specifies the database
  statements executed to create and configure a user. Must be a
  semicolon-separated string, a base64-encoded semicolon-separated string, a
  serialized JSON string array, or a base64-encoded serialized JSON string
  array. The `{{name}}` and `{{password}}` values will be substituted.

  <Warning>

    For operations such as `ALTER ROLE ... ADD MEMBER ...`, a schema modification
    lock (`SCH-M`) lock is acquired. This will block even read operations, since
    read operations aquire a schema stability lock (`SCH-S`). As a result,
    credential rotatation with `ALTER ROLE ... ADD MEMBER ...` can cause temporary
    deadlocks on the database.
    Refer to the [Microsoft documentation](https://ci.xovis.com/job/Cirrus/job/Suite-pr-cleanup/)
    for reference.

  </Warning>

- `revocation_statements` `(list: [])` – Specifies the database statements to
  be executed to revoke a user. Must be a semicolon-separated string, a
  base64-encoded semicolon-separated string, a serialized JSON string array, or
  a base64-encoded serialized JSON string array. The `{{name}}` value will be
  substituted. If not provided defaults to a generic drop user statement.

- `rotation_statements` `(list: [])` – Specifies the database statements to be
  executed to rotate the password for a given username. Must be a
  semicolon-separated string, a base64-encoded semicolon-separated string, a
  serialized JSON string array, or a base64-encoded serialized JSON string
  array. The `{{name}}` and `{{password}}` values will be substituted. The
  generated password will be a random alphanumeric 20 character string.
