content/nomad/v1.11.x/content/docs/configuration/sentinel.mdx, before:

---
layout: docs
page_title: sentinel Block in Agent Configuration
description: >-
  Configure Sentinel policy engine behavior in the "sentinel" block of a Nomad agent configuration. Configure the path to the plugin that Nomad uses to import Sentinel policies and specify arguments to pass to that plugin on startup.
---

# `sentinel` Block in Agent Configuration

<Placement groups={['sentinel']} />

This page provides reference information for configuring the Sentinel policy
engine in the `sentinel` block of a Nomad agent configuration. Configure the
path to the plugin that Nomad uses to import Sentinel policies and specify
arguments to pass to that plugin on startup.

<EnterpriseAlert/>

```hcl
sentinel {
    import "custom-plugin" {
        path = "/usr/bin/sentinel-custom-plugin"
        args = ["-verbose", "foo"]
    }
}
```

## `sentinel` Parameters

- `import` <code>([Import](#import-parameters): nil)</code> -
  Specifies a plugin that should be made available for importing by Sentinel policies.
  The name of the import matches the name that can be imported.

### `import` Parameters

- `path` `(string: "")` - Specifies the path to the import plugin. Must be executable by Nomad.

- `args` `(array<string>: [])` - Specifies arguments to pass to the plugin when starting it.

## Resources

Refer to these resources for details on using Sentinel policies with
Nomad:

- [Governance and policy on
  Nomad](/nomad/docs/govern)
- [Sentinel policies](/nomad/docs/govern/sentinel)
- [Sentinel policy
  reference](https://developer.hashicorp.com/nomad/docs/reference/sentinel-policy)

Commit message:

Nomad: support for Sentinel http and nomad_var imports (#1607)
* Create Sentinel folder and refactor
* Nomad: support for Sentinel http and nomad_var imports

Ref: https://hashicorp.atlassian.net/browse/NMD-861
Ref: https://github.com/hashicorp/nomad-enterprise/pull/3568
Co-authored-by: James Rasell <jrasell@users.noreply.github.com>
Co-authored-by: Aimee Ukasick <aimee.ukasick@hashicorp.com>

content/nomad/v1.11.x/content/docs/configuration/sentinel.mdx, after:

---
layout: docs
page_title: sentinel Block in Agent Configuration
description: >-
  Configure Sentinel policy engine behavior in the "sentinel" block of a Nomad agent configuration. Configure the path to the plugin that Nomad uses to import Sentinel policies and specify arguments to pass to that plugin on startup.
---

# `sentinel` Block in Agent Configuration

<Placement groups={['sentinel']} />

This page provides reference information for configuring the Sentinel policy
engine in the `sentinel` block of a Nomad agent configuration. Configure the
path to the plugin that Nomad uses to import Sentinel policies and specify
arguments to pass to that plugin on startup.

<EnterpriseAlert/>

```hcl
sentinel {
    import "custom-plugin" {
        path = "/usr/bin/sentinel-custom-plugin"
        args = ["-verbose", "foo"]
    }

    additional_enabled_modules = ["http"]
}
```

## `sentinel` Parameters

- `import` <code>([Import](#import-parameters): nil)</code> -
  Specifies a plugin that should be made available for importing by Sentinel policies.
  The name of the import matches the name that can be imported.

- `additional_enabled_modules` `(array<string>: [])` - Specifies a list of
  additional standard imports (modules) to allow in policies. Nomad currently
  enables all of Sentinel's standard imports except the `"http"` import, which
  has performance and security implications. Setting this field to `["http"]`
  enables the `"http"` module in addition to the standard imports. In the
  future, if any new Sentinel imports are not automatically enabled by nomad,
  you can enable them in this field. Refer to [Using the `http` import in
  Sentinel policies][using-http] for recommendations on safe use of this import.

### `import` Parameters

- `path` `(string: "")` - Specifies the path to the import plugin. Must be executable by Nomad.

- `args` `(array<string>: [])` - Specifies arguments to pass to the plugin when starting it.

## Resources

Refer to these resources for details on using Sentinel policies with
Nomad:

- [Governance and policy on Nomad][]
- [Sentinel policies][]
- [Sentinel policy reference][]


[using-http]: /nomad/docs/govern/sentinel/http
[Governance and policy on Nomad]: /nomad/docs/govern
[Sentinel policies]: /nomad/docs/govern/sentinel
[Sentinel policy reference]: /nomad/docs/reference/sentinel-policy
