content/nomad/v1.8.x/content/docs/job-specification/transparent_proxy.mdx, before:

---
layout: docs
page_title: transparent_proxy Block - Job Specification
description: |-
  The "transparent_proxy" block allows specifying options for configuring Envoy
  in Consul Connect transparent proxy mode.
---

# `transparent_proxy` Block

<Placement
  groups={[
    'job',
    'group',
    'service',
    'connect',
    'sidecar_service',
    'proxy',
    'transparent_proxy',
  ]}
/>

The `transparent_proxy` block configures the Envoy sidecar proxy to act as a
Consul Connect [transparent proxy][tproxy]. This simplifies the configuration of
Consul Connect by eliminating the need to configure [`upstreams`][] blocks in
Nomad. Instead, the Envoy proxy will determines its configuration entirely from
Consul [service intentions][].

When transparent proxy is enabled traffic will automatically flow through the
Envoy proxy. If the local Consul agent is serving DNS, Nomad will also set up
the task's nameservers to use Consul. This lets your workload use the [virtual
IP][] DNS name from Consul, rather than configuring a `template` block that
queries services.

Using transparent proxy has some important restrictions:

* You can only have a single `connect` block in any task group that uses
  transparent proxy.
* You cannot set a [`network.dns`][] block on the allocation (unless you set
  [`no_dns`](#no_dns), see below).
* The node where the allocation is placed must be configured as described in
  the Service Mesh integration documentation for [Transparent Proxy][].

## `transparent_proxy` Parameters

* `exclude_inbound_ports` `([]string: nil)` - A list of inbound ports to exclude
  from the inbound traffic redirection. This allows traffic on these ports to
  bypass the Envoy proxy. These ports can be specified as either [network port
  labels][port_labels] or as numeric ports. Nomad will automatically add the
  following to this list:
  * The [`local_path_port`][] of any [`expose`][] block.
  * The port of any service check with [`expose=true`][check_expose] set.
  * The port of any `network.port` with a [`static`][] value.
* `exclude_outbound_cidrs` `([]string: nil)` - A list of CIDR subnets that
  should be excluded from outbound traffic redirection. This allows traffic to
  these subnets to bypass the Envoy proxy. Note this is independent of
  `exclude_outbound_ports`; CIDR subnets listed here are excluded regardless of
  the port.
* `exclude_outbound_ports` `([]int: nil)` - A list of port numbers that should
  be excluded from outbound traffic redirection. This allows traffic to these
  subnets to bypass the Envoy proxy. Note this is independent of
  `exclude_outbound_cidrs`; ports listed here are excluded regardless of the
  CIDR.
* `exclude_uids` `([]string: nil)` - A list of Unix user IDs (UIDs) that should
  be excluded from outbound traffic redirection. When unset, only the Envoy
  proxy's user will be allowed to bypass the iptables rule.
* `no_dns` `(bool: false)` - By default, Consul will be set as the nameserver
  for the workload and IP tables rules will redirect DNS queries to Consul. If
  you want only external DNS, set `no_dns=true`. You will need to add your own
  CIDR and port exclusions for your DNS nameserver. You cannot set
  [`network.dns`][] if `no_dns=false`.
* `outbound_port` `(int: 15001)` - The port that Envoy will bind on inside the
  network namespace. The iptables rules created by `consul-cni` will force
  traffic to flow to this port. You should only set this value if you have
  specifically set the [`outbound_listener_port`][] in your Consul proxy
  configuration. You can change the default value for a given node via [client
  metadata](#client-metadata) (see below).
* `uid` `(string "101")` - The Unix user ID (UID) used by the Envoy proxy. You
  should only set this value if you have a custom build of the Envoy container
  image which uses a different UID. You can change the default value for a given
  node via [client metadata](#client-metadata) (see below).

## Client Metadata

You can change the default [`outbound_port`](#outbound_port) and [`uid`](#uid)
for a given client node by updating the node metadata via the [`nomad node meta
apply`][] command. The attributes that can be updated are:

* `connect.transparent_proxy.default_uid`: Sets the default value of
  [`uid`](#uid) for this node.
* `connect.transparent_proxy.default_outbound_port`: Sets the default value of
  [`outbound_port`](#outbound_port) for this node.

For example, to set the default value for the `uid` field to 120:

```shell-session
$ nomad node meta apply connect.transparent_proxy.default_uid=120
$ nomad node meta read -json | jq -r '.Dynamic | ."connect.transparent_proxy.default_uid"'
120
```

You should not normally need to set these values unless you are using custom
Envoy images.

## Examples

### Minimal Example

The following example is a minimal transparent proxy specification. Note that
with transparent proxy, you will not need to configure an `upstreams` block.

```hcl
sidecar_service {
  proxy {
    transparent_proxy {
    }
  }
}
```

If you had a downstream task group `count-dashboard` that needed to connect to
an upstream task group `count-api` listening on port 9001, you could create a
Consul service intention with the following specification:

```hcl
Kind = "service-intentions"
Name = "count-api"
Sources = [
  {
    Name   = "count-dashboard"
    Action = "allow"
  }
]
```

And then the downstream service `count-dashboard` could reach the `count-api`
service by making requests to `http://count-api.virtual.consul`.

### External DNS

The following example is a transparent proxy specification where external DNS is
used. To find the address of other allocations in this configuration, you will
need to use a [`template`][] block to query Consul.

```hcl
sidecar_service {
  proxy {
    transparent_proxy {
      excluded_outbound_ports = [53]
      excluded_outbound_cidrs = ["208.67.222.222/32", "208.67.220.220/32"]
      no_dns                  = true
    }
  }
}
```

[tproxy]: /consul/docs/k8s/connect/transparent-proxy
[`upstreams`]: /nomad/docs/job-specification/upstreams
[service intentions]: /consul/docs/connect/config-entries/service-intentions
[virtual IP]: /consul/docs/services/discovery/dns-static-lookups#service-virtual-ip-lookups
[`consul-cni`]: https://releases.hashicorp.com/consul-cni
[cni_plugins]: /nomad/docs/networking/cni#cni-reference-plugins
[consul_dns_port]: /consul/docs/agent/config/config-files#dns_port
[`recursors`]: /consul/docs/agent/config/config-files#recursors
[port_labels]: /nomad/docs/job-specification/network#port-parameters
[`local_path_port`]: /nomad/docs/job-specification/expose#local_path_port
[`expose`]: /nomad/docs/job-specification/expose
[check_expose]: /nomad/docs/job-specification/service#expose
[`static`]: /nomad/docs/job-specification/network#static
[`outbound_listener_port`]: /consul/docs/connect/proxies/proxy-config-reference#outbound_listener_port
[`template`]: /nomad/docs/job-specification/template#consul-integration
[`nomad node meta apply`]: /nomad/docs/commands/node/meta/apply
[`network.dns`]: /nomad/docs/job-specification/network#dns-parameters
[Transparent Proxy]: /nomad/docs/integrations/consul/service-mesh#transparent-proxy

Commit message:

fix: correct nomad docs v1.7.x through v1.9.x (#1381)
* fix: correct nomad docs v1.7.x through v1.9.x

* re-compress images

content/nomad/v1.8.x/content/docs/job-specification/transparent_proxy.mdx, after:

---
layout: docs
page_title: transparent_proxy Block - Job Specification
description: |-
  The "transparent_proxy" block allows specifying options for configuring Envoy
  in Consul Connect transparent proxy mode.
---

# `transparent_proxy` Block

<Placement
  groups={[
    'job',
    'group',
    'service',
    'connect',
    'sidecar_service',
    'proxy',
    'transparent_proxy',
  ]}
/>

The `transparent_proxy` block configures the Envoy sidecar proxy to act as a
Consul Connect [transparent proxy][tproxy]. This simplifies the configuration of
Consul Connect by eliminating the need to configure [`upstreams`][] blocks in
Nomad. Instead, the Envoy proxy will determines its configuration entirely from
Consul [service intentions][].

When transparent proxy is enabled traffic will automatically flow through the
Envoy proxy. If the local Consul agent is serving DNS, Nomad will also set up
the task's nameservers to use Consul. This lets your workload use the [virtual
IP][] DNS name from Consul, rather than configuring a `template` block that
queries services.

Using transparent proxy has some important restrictions:

* You can only have a single `connect` block in any task group that uses
  transparent proxy.
* You cannot set a [`network.dns`][] block on the allocation (unless you set
  [`no_dns`](#no_dns), see below).
* The node where the allocation is placed must be configured as described in
  the Service Mesh integration documentation for [Transparent Proxy][].
* The workload's task cannot use the same Unix user ID (UID) as the Envoy
  sidecar proxy.

## `transparent_proxy` Parameters

* `exclude_inbound_ports` `([]string: nil)` - A list of inbound ports to exclude
  from the inbound traffic redirection. This allows traffic on these ports to
  bypass the Envoy proxy. These ports can be specified as either [network port
  labels][port_labels] or as numeric ports. Nomad will automatically add the
  following to this list:
  * The [`local_path_port`][] of any [`expose`][] block.
  * The port of any service check with [`expose=true`][check_expose] set.
  * The port of any `network.port` with a [`static`][] value.
* `exclude_outbound_cidrs` `([]string: nil)` - A list of CIDR subnets that
  should be excluded from outbound traffic redirection. This allows traffic to
  these subnets to bypass the Envoy proxy. Note this is independent of
  `exclude_outbound_ports`; CIDR subnets listed here are excluded regardless of
  the port.
* `exclude_outbound_ports` `([]int: nil)` - A list of port numbers that should
  be excluded from outbound traffic redirection. This allows traffic to these
  subnets to bypass the Envoy proxy. Note this is independent of
  `exclude_outbound_cidrs`; ports listed here are excluded regardless of the
  CIDR.
* `exclude_uids` `([]string: nil)` - A list of Unix user IDs (UIDs) that should
  be excluded from outbound traffic redirection. When unset, only the Envoy
  proxy's user will be allowed to bypass the iptables rule.
* `no_dns` `(bool: false)` - By default, Consul will be set as the nameserver
  for the workload and IP tables rules will redirect DNS queries to Consul. If
  you want only external DNS, set `no_dns=true`. You will need to add your own
  CIDR and port exclusions for your DNS nameserver. You cannot set
  [`network.dns`][] if `no_dns=false`.
* `outbound_port` `(int: 15001)` - The port that Envoy will bind on inside the
  network namespace. The iptables rules created by `consul-cni` will force
  traffic to flow to this port. You should only set this value if you have
  specifically set the [`outbound_listener_port`][] in your Consul proxy
  configuration. You can change the default value for a given node via [client
  metadata](#client-metadata) (see below).
* `uid` `(string "101")` - The Unix user ID (UID) used by the Envoy proxy. You
  should only set this value if you have a custom build of the Envoy container
  image which uses a different UID. You can change the default value for a given
  node via [client metadata](#client-metadata) (see below). Note that your
  workload's task cannot use the same UID as the Envoy sidecar proxy.

## Client Metadata

You can change the default [`outbound_port`](#outbound_port) and [`uid`](#uid)
for a given client node by updating the node metadata via the [`nomad node meta
apply`][] command. The attributes that can be updated are:

* `connect.transparent_proxy.default_uid`: Sets the default value of
  [`uid`](#uid) for this node.
* `connect.transparent_proxy.default_outbound_port`: Sets the default value of
  [`outbound_port`](#outbound_port) for this node.

For example, to set the default value for the `uid` field to 120:

```shell-session
$ nomad node meta apply connect.transparent_proxy.default_uid=120
$ nomad node meta read -json | jq -r '.Dynamic | ."connect.transparent_proxy.default_uid"'
120
```

You should not normally need to set these values unless you are using custom
Envoy images.

## Examples

### Minimal Example

The following example is a minimal transparent proxy specification. Note that
with transparent proxy, you will not need to configure an `upstreams` block.

```hcl
sidecar_service {
  proxy {
    transparent_proxy {
    }
  }
}
```

If you had a downstream task group `count-dashboard` that needed to connect to
an upstream task group `count-api` listening on port 9001, you could create a
Consul service intention with the following specification:

```hcl
Kind = "service-intentions"
Name = "count-api"
Sources = [
  {
    Name   = "count-dashboard"
    Action = "allow"
  }
]
```

And then the downstream service `count-dashboard` could reach the `count-api`
service by making requests to `http://count-api.virtual.consul`.

### External DNS

The following example is a transparent proxy specification where external DNS is
used. To find the address of other allocations in this configuration, you will
need to use a [`template`][] block to query Consul.

```hcl
sidecar_service {
  proxy {
    transparent_proxy {
      excluded_outbound_ports = [53]
      excluded_outbound_cidrs = ["208.67.222.222/32", "208.67.220.220/32"]
      no_dns                  = true
    }
  }
}
```

[tproxy]: /consul/docs/k8s/connect/transparent-proxy
[`upstreams`]: /nomad/docs/job-specification/upstreams
[service intentions]: /consul/docs/connect/config-entries/service-intentions
[virtual IP]: /consul/docs/services/discovery/dns-static-lookups#service-virtual-ip-lookups
[`consul-cni`]: https://releases.hashicorp.com/consul-cni
[cni_plugins]: /nomad/docs/networking/cni#cni-reference-plugins
[consul_dns_port]: /consul/docs/agent/config/config-files#dns_port
[`recursors`]: /consul/docs/agent/config/config-files#recursors
[port_labels]: /nomad/docs/job-specification/network#port-parameters
[`local_path_port`]: /nomad/docs/job-specification/expose#local_path_port
[`expose`]: /nomad/docs/job-specification/expose
[check_expose]: /nomad/docs/job-specification/service#expose
[`static`]: /nomad/docs/job-specification/network#static
[`outbound_listener_port`]: /consul/docs/connect/proxies/proxy-config-reference#outbound_listener_port
[`template`]: /nomad/docs/job-specification/template#consul-integration
[`nomad node meta apply`]: /nomad/commands/node/meta/apply
[`network.dns`]: /nomad/docs/job-specification/network#dns-parameters
[Transparent Proxy]: /nomad/docs/integrations/consul/service-mesh#transparent-proxy
