content/boundary/v0.21.x/content/docs/hosts/azure.mdx, before:

---
layout: docs
page_title: Azure dynamic host catalogs
description: >-
  Use dynamic host catalogs to automatically discover Azure resources and add them as hosts. Create a host catalog and host set for Azure resources.
---
# Azure dynamic host catalogs
Boundary uses dynamic host catalogs to automatically discover Azure resources available through Azure Resource Manager (ARM) and add them as hosts.

The Azure plugin supports Azure Virtual Machines and Azure Virtual Machine Scale Sets in both Flexible and Uniform orchestration modes.
It automatically discovers any individual virtual machines included in the scale sets and adds them as hosts.

## Create a host catalog to connect with Azure
Boundary uses plugins to integrate with a variety of providers.   To use a
dynamic host catalog to integrate with Azure, you create a host catalog of the
`plugin` type and set the `plugin-name` value to `azure`.  You must also provide the
specific fields needed for Boundary to authenticate with Azure.

Complete the following steps to create a dynamic host catalog for Azure:

<Tabs>
<Tab heading="UI" group="ui">

1. Log in to Boundary.
1. Select the org, and then select the project you want to create a host catalog for.
1. Select **Host Catalogs**.
1. Select **New Host Catalog**.
1. Complete the following fields:
   - **Name**: (Optional) An optional name for identification purposes.
   If you enter a name, it must be unique.
   - **Description**: (Optional) An optional description of the host catalog for identification purposes.
   - **Type**: (Required) Select **Dynamic** to create a dynamic host catalog.
   - **Provider**: (Required) Select **Azure** to create a dynamic host catalog for your Azure resources.
   - **Tenant/Directory ID**: (Required) The ARM tenant (directory) ID for your Azure Active Directory application.
   - **Subscription ID**: (Required) The ARM subscription ID for the subscription that has read access.
   - **Client/Application ID**: (Required) The client (application) ID of the Azure service principal that Boundary should use to authenticate and discover hosts.
   - **Client Secret Value**: (Required) The ARM client secret value that Azure generates for authentication.
   - **Disable credential rotation**: When enabled, Boundary does not rotate the credentials with Azure automatically.
   Azure host catalogs do not currently support credential rotation.
1. Select **Save**.

</Tab>
<Tab heading="CLI" group="cli">

1. Log in to Boundary.
1. Use the following command to create a dynamic host catalog for Azure:

  ```shell-session
  $ boundary host-catalogs create plugin \
    -scope-id $PROJECT_ID \
    -plugin-name azure \
    -attr disable_credential_rotation=true \
    -attr tenant_id=env://ARM_TENANT_ID \
    -attr subscription_id=env://ARM_SUBSCRIPTION_ID \
    -attr client_id=env://ARM_CLIENT_ID \
    -secret secret_value=env://ARM_CLIENT_SECRET
  ```

  The `scope-id` and `plugin-name` fields are required when you create a dynamic host catalog.

  The fields following the `attr` and `secret` flags are specific to Azure and are required by Boundary for authentication.

    - `disable_credential_rotation`: When set to `true`, Boundary does not rotate the credentials automatically.
    Azure host catalogs do not currently support credential rotation.
    - `tenant_id`: (Required) The ARM tenant (directory) ID for your Azure Active Directory application.
    - `subscription_id`: (Required) The ARM subscription ID for the subscription that has read access.
    - `client_id`: (Required) The client (application) ID of the Azure service principal that Boundary should use to authenticate and discover hosts.
    - `secret_value`: (Required) The ARM client secret value that Azure generates for authentication.

  Refer to the [host catalogs](/boundary/docs/domain-model/host-catalogs) domain model documentation for additional fields that you can use when you create host catalogs.

</Tab>
<Tab heading="Terraform" group="terraform">

Refer to the [Boundary Terraform provider documentation](https://registry.terraform.io/providers/hashicorp/boundary/latest/docs) to learn about the requirements for the following example attributes.

Apply the following Terraform policy:

```hcl
resource "boundary_host_catalog_plugin" "azure_host_catalog" {
  name        = "Azure Catalog"
  description = "Azure Host Catalog"
  scope_id    = boundary_scope.project.id
  plugin_name = "azure"

  # recommended to pass in aws secrets using a file() or using environment variables
  attributes_json = jsonencode({
    "tenant_id"       = "ARM_TENANT_ID",
    "subscription_id" = "ARM_SUBSCRIPTION_ID"
    "client_id"       = "ARM_CLIENT_ID"
    "disable_credential_rotation" = true })
  secrets_json = jsonencode({
    "secret_value" = "ARM_CLIENT_SECRET"})
}
```

The `scope_id` and `plugin_name` fields are required when you create a
dynamic host catalog.

The fields following the `attributes_json` and `secrets_json` flags are specific to Azure and are required by
  Boundary for authentication.

- `disable_credential_rotation`: When set to `true`, Boundary does not rotate the credentials automatically.
Azure host catalogs do not currently support credential rotation.
- `tenant_id`: (Required) The ARM tenant (directory) ID for your Azure Active Directory application.
- `subscription_id`: (Required) The ARM subscription ID for the subscription that has read access.
- `client_id`: (Required) The client (application) ID of the Azure service principal that Boundary should use to authenticate and discover hosts.
- `secret_value`: (Required) The ARM client secret value that Azure generates for authentication.

Refer to the [host catalogs](/boundary/docs/domain-model/host-catalogs) domain model documentation for additional fields that you can use when you create host catalogs.

</Tab>
</Tabs>

## Create a host set to connect with Azure
[Host sets](/boundary/docs/domain-model/host-sets) specify which Azure
Resource Manager (ARM) filters should be used to identify the discovered hosts that should be added as members.

Complete the following steps to create a host set:

<Tabs>
<Tab heading="UI" group="ui">

1. Log in to Boundary.
1. Select the org, and then select the project you want to create a host set for.
1. Select **Host Catalogs**.
1. Select the dynamic host catalog to which you want add a host set.
1. Click the **Host Sets** tab, and then click **New**.
1. Complete the following fields:
    - **Name**: (Optional) An optional name for identification purposes.
    If you enter a name, it must be unique.
    - **Description**: (Optional) An optional description of the host catalog for identification purposes.
1. Click **Save**.

</Tab>

<Tab heading="CLI" group="cli">

1. Log in to Boundary.
1. Use the following command to create a host set:

  ```shell-session
  $ boundary host-sets create plugin \
    -name database \
    -host-catalog-id $HOST_CATALOG_ID \
    -attr filter="tagName eq 'service-type' and tagValue eq 'database'"
  ```

  The `host-catalog-id` value is a required field that specifies in which host catalog to create this host set.

  The fields following the `attr` flag are specific to Azure.

  The `filter` field represents the ARM filter used to select resources that should be a part of this host set.
  There are some limitations with the filtering syntax.
  Specifically, when you use tags, other types of filters (such as on resource type) are not allowed.
  As a result, it is generally useful to filter directly on tag names or values as in the following examples:
    - `tagName eq 'application'`
    - `tagName eq 'application' and tagValue eq 'app2'`

  Refer to the [host catalogs](/boundary/docs/domain-model/host-catalogs) domain model documentation for additional fields that you can use when you create host catalogs.

</Tab>

<Tab heading="Terraform" group="terraform">

Refer to the [Boundary Terraform provider documentation](https://registry.terraform.io/providers/hashicorp/boundary/latest/docs) to learn about the requirements for the following example attributes.

Apply the following Terraform policy:

```hcl
  resource "boundary_host_set_plugin" "azure_host_set" {
  name        = "Azure Set"
  description = "Azure Host Set"
  host_catalog_id  = boundary_scope.azure_host_catalog.id
  attributes_json = jsonencode({
    "filter" = "tagName eq 'service-type' and tagValue eq 'database'" })
}
```

The `host_catalog_id` value is a required field that specifies in which host catalog to
  create this host set.

The fields following the `attributes_json` flag are specific to Azure.

The `filter` field represents the ARM filter used to select resources that should be a part of
  this host set.  There are some limitations with the filtering syntax.
  Specifically, when you use tags, other types of filters (such as on resource
  type) are not allowed. As a result, it is generally useful to filter
  directly on tag names or values as in the following examples:
    - `tagName eq 'application'`
    - `tagName eq 'application' and tagValue eq 'app2'`

Refer to the [host catalogs](/boundary/docs/domain-model/host-catalogs) domain model documentation for additional fields that you can use when you create host catalogs.

</Tab>
</Tabs>

## More information

Refer to [Filtering and listing resources](/boundary/docs/filtering) for more information about Boundary's filter syntax and best practices.

Commit message:

adds filter example to DHC UI workflows, fixes header spacing

content/boundary/v0.21.x/content/docs/hosts/azure.mdx, after:

---
layout: docs
page_title: Azure dynamic host catalogs
description: >-
  Use dynamic host catalogs to automatically discover Azure resources and add them as hosts. Create a host catalog and host set for Azure resources.
---

# Azure dynamic host catalogs

Boundary uses dynamic host catalogs to automatically discover Azure resources available through Azure Resource Manager (ARM) and add them as hosts.

The Azure plugin supports Azure Virtual Machines and Azure Virtual Machine Scale Sets in both Flexible and Uniform orchestration modes.
It automatically discovers any individual virtual machines included in the scale sets and adds them as hosts.

## Create a host catalog to connect with Azure

Boundary uses plugins to integrate with a variety of providers.   To use a
dynamic host catalog to integrate with Azure, you create a host catalog of the
`plugin` type and set the `plugin-name` value to `azure`.  You must also provide the
specific fields needed for Boundary to authenticate with Azure.

Complete the following steps to create a dynamic host catalog for Azure:

<Tabs>
<Tab heading="UI" group="ui">

1. Log in to Boundary.
1. Select the org, and then select the project you want to create a host catalog for.
1. Select **Host Catalogs**.
1. Select **New Host Catalog**.
1. Complete the following fields:
   - **Name**: (Optional) An optional name for identification purposes.
   If you enter a name, it must be unique.
   - **Description**: (Optional) An optional description of the host catalog for identification purposes.
   - **Type**: (Required) Select **Dynamic** to create a dynamic host catalog.
   - **Provider**: (Required) Select **Azure** to create a dynamic host catalog for your Azure resources.
   - **Tenant/Directory ID**: (Required) The ARM tenant (directory) ID for your Azure Active Directory application.
   - **Subscription ID**: (Required) The ARM subscription ID for the subscription that has read access.
   - **Client/Application ID**: (Required) The client (application) ID of the Azure service principal that Boundary should use to authenticate and discover hosts.
   - **Client Secret Value**: (Required) The ARM client secret value that Azure generates for authentication.
   - **Disable credential rotation**: When enabled, Boundary does not rotate the credentials with Azure automatically.
   Azure host catalogs do not currently support credential rotation.
1. Select **Save**.

</Tab>
<Tab heading="CLI" group="cli">

1. Log in to Boundary.
1. Use the following command to create a dynamic host catalog for Azure:

  ```shell-session
  $ boundary host-catalogs create plugin \
    -scope-id $PROJECT_ID \
    -plugin-name azure \
    -attr disable_credential_rotation=true \
    -attr tenant_id=env://ARM_TENANT_ID \
    -attr subscription_id=env://ARM_SUBSCRIPTION_ID \
    -attr client_id=env://ARM_CLIENT_ID \
    -secret secret_value=env://ARM_CLIENT_SECRET
  ```

  The `scope-id` and `plugin-name` fields are required when you create a dynamic host catalog.

  The fields following the `attr` and `secret` flags are specific to Azure and are required by Boundary for authentication.

    - `disable_credential_rotation`: When set to `true`, Boundary does not rotate the credentials automatically.
    Azure host catalogs do not currently support credential rotation.
    - `tenant_id`: (Required) The ARM tenant (directory) ID for your Azure Active Directory application.
    - `subscription_id`: (Required) The ARM subscription ID for the subscription that has read access.
    - `client_id`: (Required) The client (application) ID of the Azure service principal that Boundary should use to authenticate and discover hosts.
    - `secret_value`: (Required) The ARM client secret value that Azure generates for authentication.

  Refer to the [host catalogs](/boundary/docs/domain-model/host-catalogs) domain model documentation for additional fields that you can use when you create host catalogs.

</Tab>
<Tab heading="Terraform" group="terraform">

Refer to the [Boundary Terraform provider documentation](https://registry.terraform.io/providers/hashicorp/boundary/latest/docs) to learn about the requirements for the following example attributes.

Apply the following Terraform policy:

```hcl
resource "boundary_host_catalog_plugin" "azure_host_catalog" {
  name        = "Azure Catalog"
  description = "Azure Host Catalog"
  scope_id    = boundary_scope.project.id
  plugin_name = "azure"

  # recommended to pass in aws secrets using a file() or using environment variables
  attributes_json = jsonencode({
    "tenant_id"       = "ARM_TENANT_ID",
    "subscription_id" = "ARM_SUBSCRIPTION_ID"
    "client_id"       = "ARM_CLIENT_ID"
    "disable_credential_rotation" = true })
  secrets_json = jsonencode({
    "secret_value" = "ARM_CLIENT_SECRET"})
}
```

The `scope_id` and `plugin_name` fields are required when you create a
dynamic host catalog.

The fields following the `attributes_json` and `secrets_json` flags are specific to Azure and are required by
  Boundary for authentication.

- `disable_credential_rotation`: When set to `true`, Boundary does not rotate the credentials automatically.
Azure host catalogs do not currently support credential rotation.
- `tenant_id`: (Required) The ARM tenant (directory) ID for your Azure Active Directory application.
- `subscription_id`: (Required) The ARM subscription ID for the subscription that has read access.
- `client_id`: (Required) The client (application) ID of the Azure service principal that Boundary should use to authenticate and discover hosts.
- `secret_value`: (Required) The ARM client secret value that Azure generates for authentication.

Refer to the [host catalogs](/boundary/docs/domain-model/host-catalogs) domain model documentation for additional fields that you can use when you create host catalogs.

</Tab>
</Tabs>

## Create a host set to connect with Azure

[Host sets](/boundary/docs/domain-model/host-sets) specify which Azure
Resource Manager (ARM) filters should be used to identify the discovered hosts that should be added as members.

Complete the following steps to create a host set:

<Tabs>
<Tab heading="UI" group="ui">

1. Log in to Boundary.
1. Select the org, and then select the project you want to create a host set for.
1. Select **Host Catalogs**.
1. Select the dynamic host catalog to which you want add a host set.
1. Click the **Host Sets** tab, and then click **New**.
1. Complete the following fields:
    - **Name**: (Optional) An optional name for identification purposes.
    If you enter a name, it must be unique.
    - **Description**: (Optional) An optional description of the host catalog for identification purposes.
    - **Filter**: (Optional) An array of string filters in the format `key eq 'value'`. The key corresponds to a filter option like `tagName`. A full example would be `tagName eq 'application'`.

      The filter field represents the ARM filter used to select resources that should be a part of this host set.
      There are some limitations with the filtering syntax.
      Specifically, when you use tags, other types of filters (such as on resource type) are not allowed.
      This means it is useful to filter directly on tag names or values as in the following examples:
        - `tagName eq 'application'`
        - `tagName eq 'application' and tagValue eq 'app2'`
1. Click **Save**.

</Tab>

<Tab heading="CLI" group="cli">

1. Log in to Boundary.
1. Use the following command to create a host set:

  ```shell-session
  $ boundary host-sets create plugin \
    -name database \
    -host-catalog-id $HOST_CATALOG_ID \
    -attr filter="tagName eq 'service-type' and tagValue eq 'database'"
  ```

  The `host-catalog-id` value is a required field that specifies in which host catalog to create this host set.

  The fields following the `attr` flag are specific to Azure.

  The `filter` field represents the ARM filter used to select resources that should be a part of this host set.
  There are some limitations with the filtering syntax.
  Specifically, when you use tags, other types of filters (such as on resource type) are not allowed.
  This means it is useful to filter directly on tag names or values as in the following examples:
    - `tagName eq 'application'`
    - `tagName eq 'application' and tagValue eq 'app2'`

  Refer to the [host catalogs](/boundary/docs/domain-model/host-catalogs) domain model documentation for additional fields that you can use when you create host catalogs.

</Tab>

<Tab heading="Terraform" group="terraform">

Refer to the [Boundary Terraform provider documentation](https://registry.terraform.io/providers/hashicorp/boundary/latest/docs) to learn about the requirements for the following example attributes.

Apply the following Terraform policy:

```hcl
  resource "boundary_host_set_plugin" "azure_host_set" {
  name        = "Azure Set"
  description = "Azure Host Set"
  host_catalog_id  = boundary_scope.azure_host_catalog.id
  attributes_json = jsonencode({
    "filter" = "tagName eq 'service-type' and tagValue eq 'database'" })
}
```

The `host_catalog_id` value is a required field that specifies in which host catalog to
  create this host set.

The fields following the `attributes_json` flag are specific to Azure.

The `filter` field represents the ARM filter used to select resources that should be a part of this host set.  There are some limitations with the filtering syntax. Specifically, when you use tags, other types of filters (such as on resource type) are not allowed. This means it is useful to filter directly on tag names or values as in the following examples:
  - `tagName eq 'application'`
  - `tagName eq 'application' and tagValue eq 'app2'`

Refer to the [host catalogs](/boundary/docs/domain-model/host-catalogs) domain model documentation for additional fields that you can use when you create host catalogs.

</Tab>
</Tabs>

## More information

Refer to [Filtering and listing resources](/boundary/docs/filtering) for more information about Boundary's filter syntax and best practices.
