content/terraform-docs-common/docs/cloud-docs/workspaces/run/manage.mdx, before:

---
page_title: Manage and view runs in HCP Terraform
description: >-
  Learn how to view and interact with runs in HCP Terraform, and how to unlock
  and lock workspaces to prevent new runs.
---

# Manage and view runs

Each workspace in HCP Terraform includes a list of its current, pending, and historical runs. You can view and interact with these runs in the UI. You can also lock workspaces to temporarily prevent new runs.

## API

Refer to the [Runs API](/terraform/cloud-docs/api-docs/run) and [lock a Workspace endpoint](/terraform/cloud-docs/api-docs/workspaces#lock-a-workspace).

## Navigating Runs

Go to the workspace and click the **Runs** tab to review a list of all current and past Terraform runs.

Click a run to go to its details page. The details page contains the following information:

- The current status of the run.
- The code commit associated with the run.
- How the run initiated, when, and which user initiated it (if applicable).
- A timeline of events related to the run.
- The output from both the `terraform plan` and `terraform apply` commands, if applicable. This output defaults to visible if the command is currently running and hidden if the command has finished.

### Action runs

@include 'beta.mdx'

If a run invokes an action that is triggered as part of a resource lifecycle, HCP Terraform identifies them on the run details page. HCP Terraform indicates how many actions the run invoked and adds **action:** labels to the **Plan** operation output and **Invoked:** labels to the **Apply** operation output.  

Actions are preset operations built into providers that you can invoke to trigger automations outside of Terraform, such as Ansible playbooks and Lambda jobs. Refer to [Invoke an action](/terraform/language/v1.14.x/invoke-actions) in the Terraform configuration language documentation for more information.
 

## Interacting with Runs

In workspaces where you have [permission to apply runs](/terraform/cloud-docs/users-teams-organizations/permissions/workspace), you can interact with a run at the bottom of its details page.

The following options are available, depending on the state of the run:

| Button              | Available when:                                                                                                                                                                                                                    |
| ------------------- | ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| Add Comment         | Always.                                                                                                                                                                                                                            |
| Confirm & Apply     | A plan needs confirmation.                                                                                                                                                                                                         |
| Override & Continue | A soft-mandatory policy failed. Requires permission to manage policy overrides for the organization.                                                 |
| Discard Run         | A plan needs confirmation or a soft-mandatory policy failed.                                                                                                                                                                       |
| Cancel Run          | A plan or apply is currently running.                                                                                                                                                                                              |
| Force Cancel Run    | A plan or apply canceled, but HCP Terraform was unable to end the run. Requires admin access to the workspace.  |
| Retry Run           | A plan-only run has finished. You can also change which Terraform version to use when retrying a plan-only run.                                                                                                                    |

[permissions-citation]: #intentionally-unused---keep-for-maintainers

If a plan needs confirmation (with [manual apply](/terraform/cloud-docs/workspaces/settings#auto-apply-and-manual-apply) enabled) or a soft-mandatory policy failed, the run remains paused until a user with appropriate permissions uses these buttons to continue or discard the run. Refer to [Run States and Stages](/terraform/cloud-docs/workspaces/run/states) for more details.

### Canceling Runs

If a run is currently planning or applying, users with [permission to apply runs](/terraform/cloud-docs/users-teams-organizations/permissions/workspace) for the workspace can click **Cancel Run** to stop the run before it finishes.

[permissions-citation]: #intentionally-unused---keep-for-maintainers

Canceling a run is roughly equivalent to typing `ctrl+c` during a Terraform plan or apply on the CLI. The running Terraform process is sent an INT signal, which instructs Terraform to end its work, update state for any resources that have already been changed, and wrap up in the safest way possible.

In rare cases, a canceled run can fail to end, continuing to lock the workspace. You can forcefully cancel these runs, which immediately terminates the running Terraform process and unlocks the workspace.

Force-canceling requires admin access to the workspace because it can have dangerous side-effects, including loss of state and orphaned resources. Additionally, the **Force Cancel Run** button only appears after you click **Cancel Run** and HCP Terraform has time to terminate the run safely.

[permissions-citation]: #intentionally-unused---keep-for-maintainers

## Locking Workspaces (Preventing Runs)

You can lock the workspace to temporarily stop runs from proceeding. Locking a workspace requires [permission to lock and unlock the workspace](/terraform/cloud-docs/users-teams-organizations/permissions/workspace), and requires that the workspace is not currently locked by an in-progress run.

A lock prevents HCP Terraform from performing any applies in the workspace, and also prevents many kinds of plans. New runs remain in the **Pending** state until the workspace unlocks.

Locking **does not** affect [plan-only runs](/terraform/cloud-docs/workspaces/run/remote-operations#speculative-plans) or the planning stages of [saved plan runs](/terraform/cloud-docs/workspaces/run/cli#remote-saved-plans). Terraform allows these types of runs because they can not affect infrastructure resources, do not attempt to lock the workspace themselves, and might provide important information about tasks to perform before removing the lock. Note that you can not _apply_ saved-plan runs while the workspace is locked, and HCP Terraform automatically discards these runs if the workspace's state is changed before they can be applied. Terraform Enterprise does not yet support saved plans.

HCP Terraform shows the lock status in the workspace's header, next to the **Actions** menu.

To lock or unlock a workspace, do one of the following:
- Open the **Actions** menu and select **Lock workspace** or **Unlock workspace**.
- Go to **Settings > Locking**.

[permissions-citation]: #intentionally-unused---keep-for-maintainers

Commit message:

remove beta callouts, update links for actions GA

content/terraform-docs-common/docs/cloud-docs/workspaces/run/manage.mdx, after:

---
page_title: Manage and view runs in HCP Terraform
description: >-
  Learn how to view and interact with runs in HCP Terraform, and how to unlock
  and lock workspaces to prevent new runs.
---

# Manage and view runs

Each workspace in HCP Terraform includes a list of its current, pending, and historical runs. You can view and interact with these runs in the UI. You can also lock workspaces to temporarily prevent new runs.

## API

Refer to the [Runs API](/terraform/cloud-docs/api-docs/run) and [lock a Workspace endpoint](/terraform/cloud-docs/api-docs/workspaces#lock-a-workspace).

## Navigating Runs

Go to the workspace and click the **Runs** tab to review a list of all current and past Terraform runs.

Click a run to go to its details page. The details page contains the following information:

- The current status of the run.
- The code commit associated with the run.
- How the run initiated, when, and which user initiated it (if applicable).
- A timeline of events related to the run.
- The output from both the `terraform plan` and `terraform apply` commands, if applicable. This output defaults to visible if the command is currently running and hidden if the command has finished.

<!-- BEGIN: TFC:only name:actions -->

### Action runs

HCP Terraform identifies runs that invoke actions on the run details page. Actions are preset operations built into providers that you can invoke to trigger automations outside of Terraform, such as Ansible playbooks and Lambda jobs. Refer to [Invoke an action](/terraform/language/invoke-actions) in the Terraform configuration language documentation for more information.

HCP Terraform indicates how many actions the run invoked and adds **action:** labels to the **Plan** operation output and **Invoked:** labels to the **Apply** operation output.  

You can invoke actions either as part of a resource lifecycle configuration or manually target a specific action using the `-invoke` flag to a `terraformm apply` or `terraform plan` command.  

<Note>

A Standard tier subscription is required to view details about actions that were invoked from the command line using the `-invoked` flag. Refer to the [Terraform pricing page](https://www.hashicorp.com/en/pricing?tab=terraform) for more information.

</Note>

<!-- END: TFC:only name:actions -->

## Interacting with Runs

In workspaces where you have [permission to apply runs](/terraform/cloud-docs/users-teams-organizations/permissions/workspace), you can interact with a run at the bottom of its details page.

The following options are available, depending on the state of the run:

| Button              | Available when:                                                                                                                                                                                                                    |
| ------------------- | ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| Add Comment         | Always.                                                                                                                                                                                                                            |
| Confirm & Apply     | A plan needs confirmation.                                                                                                                                                                                                         |
| Override & Continue | A soft-mandatory policy failed. Requires permission to manage policy overrides for the organization.                                                 |
| Discard Run         | A plan needs confirmation or a soft-mandatory policy failed.                                                                                                                                                                       |
| Cancel Run          | A plan or apply is currently running.                                                                                                                                                                                              |
| Force Cancel Run    | A plan or apply canceled, but HCP Terraform was unable to end the run. Requires admin access to the workspace.  |
| Retry Run           | A plan-only run has finished. You can also change which Terraform version to use when retrying a plan-only run.                                                                                                                    |

[permissions-citation]: #intentionally-unused---keep-for-maintainers

If a plan needs confirmation (with [manual apply](/terraform/cloud-docs/workspaces/settings#auto-apply-and-manual-apply) enabled) or a soft-mandatory policy failed, the run remains paused until a user with appropriate permissions uses these buttons to continue or discard the run. Refer to [Run States and Stages](/terraform/cloud-docs/workspaces/run/states) for more details.

### Canceling Runs

If a run is currently planning or applying, users with [permission to apply runs](/terraform/cloud-docs/users-teams-organizations/permissions/workspace) for the workspace can click **Cancel Run** to stop the run before it finishes.

[permissions-citation]: #intentionally-unused---keep-for-maintainers

Canceling a run is roughly equivalent to typing `ctrl+c` during a Terraform plan or apply on the CLI. The running Terraform process is sent an INT signal, which instructs Terraform to end its work, update state for any resources that have already been changed, and wrap up in the safest way possible.

In rare cases, a canceled run can fail to end, continuing to lock the workspace. You can forcefully cancel these runs, which immediately terminates the running Terraform process and unlocks the workspace.

Force-canceling requires admin access to the workspace because it can have dangerous side-effects, including loss of state and orphaned resources. Additionally, the **Force Cancel Run** button only appears after you click **Cancel Run** and HCP Terraform has time to terminate the run safely.

[permissions-citation]: #intentionally-unused---keep-for-maintainers

## Locking Workspaces (Preventing Runs)

You can lock the workspace to temporarily stop runs from proceeding. Locking a workspace requires [permission to lock and unlock the workspace](/terraform/cloud-docs/users-teams-organizations/permissions/workspace), and requires that the workspace is not currently locked by an in-progress run.

A lock prevents HCP Terraform from performing any applies in the workspace, and also prevents many kinds of plans. New runs remain in the **Pending** state until the workspace unlocks.

Locking **does not** affect [plan-only runs](/terraform/cloud-docs/workspaces/run/remote-operations#speculative-plans) or the planning stages of [saved plan runs](/terraform/cloud-docs/workspaces/run/cli#remote-saved-plans). Terraform allows these types of runs because they can not affect infrastructure resources, do not attempt to lock the workspace themselves, and might provide important information about tasks to perform before removing the lock. Note that you can not _apply_ saved-plan runs while the workspace is locked, and HCP Terraform automatically discards these runs if the workspace's state is changed before they can be applied. Terraform Enterprise does not yet support saved plans.

HCP Terraform shows the lock status in the workspace's header, next to the **Actions** menu.

To lock or unlock a workspace, do one of the following:
- Open the **Actions** menu and select **Lock workspace** or **Unlock workspace**.
- Go to **Settings > Locking**.

[permissions-citation]: #intentionally-unused---keep-for-maintainers
