content/consul/v1.22.x/content/docs/architecture/backend.mdx, before:

---
layout: docs
page_title: Persistent backend architecture
description: >-
  Consul persists the Raft index, which logs cluster activities, with the Write-ahead log (WAL) LogStore backend. Consul saves the Raft index in the server's data directory.
---

# Persistent data backend architecture

This page introduces the architecture of the backend that Consul server agents use to store Raft index data.

## Raft index

Consul uses the Raft protocol to manage [server consensus](/consul/docs/concept/consensus), to maintain a [reliable, fault-tolerant](/consul/docs/concept/reliability) state across all servers. This consensus mechanism ensures [consistent service discovery and health monitoring](/consul/docs/concept/consistency), even when individual servers fail or become temporarily disconnected from the cluster.

The Raft index provides a record of the cluster's state. It tracks interactions between Consul servers as they conduct elections, register service instances into [the Consul catalog](/consul/docs/concept/catalog), and update the catalog with the results of service node health checks.

You can also use Consul's [snapshot agent](/consul/commands/snapshot/agent) to save a copy of the entire Raft index. This snapshot lets you restore a datacenter from a backup in the event of an outage or catastrophic failure. You can save snapshot to a cloud storage bucket to ensure data persistence.

## Data directory

Consul writes the Raft index to the data directory specified in the agent configuration with the `data_dir` parameter or `-data_dir` CLI flag. The data directory is a requirement for all agents, and should be durable across reboots.

## Write-ahead log (WAL) LogStore backend

Consul logs the Raft index with the write-ahead log (WAL) LogStore backend. The WAL backend implements a traditional log with rotating, append-only log files, and it retains logs without affecting a cluster's write performance at scale.

Previous versions of Consul used BoltDB as the default LogStore backend. Refer
to the [WAL LogStore backend overview](/consul/docs/deploy/server/wal) for more
information. To use BoltDB instead of WAL, refer to [Revert storage backend to
BoltDB from WAL](/consul/docs/deploy/server/wal/revert-boltdb).

Commit message:

Porting changes from old consul repo

content/consul/v1.22.x/content/docs/architecture/backend.mdx, after:

---
layout: docs
page_title: Persistent backend architecture
description: >-
  Consul persists the Raft index, which logs cluster activities, with the Write-ahead log (WAL) LogStore backend. Consul saves the Raft index in the server's data directory.
---

# Persistent data backend architecture

This page introduces the architecture of the backend that Consul server agents use to store Raft index data. By default, Consul uses the Write-ahead log (WAL) LogStore to persist data from Raft operations.

## Raft index

Consul uses the Raft protocol to manage [server consensus](/consul/docs/concept/consensus), to maintain a [reliable, fault-tolerant](/consul/docs/concept/reliability) state across all servers. This consensus mechanism ensures [consistent service discovery and health monitoring](/consul/docs/concept/consistency), even when individual servers fail or become temporarily disconnected from the cluster.

The Raft index provides a record of the cluster's state. It tracks interactions between Consul servers as they conduct elections, register service instances into [the Consul catalog](/consul/docs/concept/catalog), and update the catalog with the results of service node health checks.

You can also use Consul's [snapshot agent](/consul/commands/snapshot/agent) to save a copy of the entire Raft index. This snapshot lets you restore a datacenter from a backup in the event of an outage or catastrophic failure. You can save snapshot to a cloud storage bucket to ensure data persistence.

## Data directory

Consul writes the Raft index to the data directory specified in the agent configuration with the `data_dir` parameter or `-data_dir` CLI flag. The data directory is a requirement for all agents, and should be durable across reboots.

## Write-ahead log (WAL) LogStore backend

Consul logs the Raft index with the write-ahead log (WAL) LogStore backend. The WAL backend implements a traditional log with rotating, append-only log files, and it retains logs without affecting a cluster's write performance at scale.

Previous versions of Consul used BoltDB as the default LogStore backend. Refer
to the [WAL LogStore backend overview](/consul/docs/deploy/server/wal) for more
information. To use BoltDB instead of WAL, refer to [Revert storage backend to
BoltDB from WAL](/consul/docs/deploy/server/wal/revert-boltdb).
