content/vault/v1.21.x (rc)/content/docs/auth/login-mfa/index.mdx, before:

---
layout: docs
page_title: Set up login MFA
description: >-
  Use basic multi-factor authentication (MFA) with Vault to add an extra level
  of user verification to your authentication workflow for Vault.
---

# Set up login MFA

The underlying identity system in Vault supports multi-factor authentication
(MFA) for authenticating to an auth method using different authentication types.

MFA implementation                        | Required Vault edition
----------------------------------------- | -----------------------
Login MFA                                 | Vault Community
[Step-up MFA](/vault/docs/enterprise/mfa) | Vault Enterprise


## Login MFA types

MFA in Vault includes the following login types:

~> **NOTE:** The [Token](/vault/docs/auth/token) auth method cannot be configured with Vault's built-in Login MFA feature.

- `Time-based One-time Password (TOTP)` - If configured and enabled on a login path,
  this would require a TOTP passcode along with a Vault token to be presented
  while invoking the API login request. The passcode will be validated against the
  TOTP key present in the caller's identify in Vault. <EnterpriseAlert product="vault" inline /> 
  TOTP supports [self-enrollment](/vault/docs/enterprise/mfa#self-enroll-mfa-totp).

- `Okta` - If Okta push is configured and enabled on a login path, then the enrolled
  device of the user will receive a push notification to either approve or deny access
  to the API. The Okta username will be derived from the caller identity's
  alias.

- `Duo` - If Duo push is configured and enabled on a login path, then the enrolled
  device of the user will receive a push notification to either approve or deny access
  to the API. The Duo username will be derived from the caller identity's
  alias. Note that Duo could also be configured to use passcodes for authentication.

- `PingID` - If PingID push is configured and enabled on a login path, the
  enrolled device of the user will receive a push notification to either approve or deny
  access to the API. The PingID username will be derived from the caller
  identity's alias.

## Login MFA procedure

~> **NOTE:** Vault's built-in Login MFA feature does not protect against brute forcing of
TOTP passcodes by default. We recommend that per-client [rate limits](/vault/docs/concepts/resource-quotas)
are applied to the relevant login and/or mfa paths (e.g. `/sys/mfa/validate`). External MFA
methods (`Duo`, `Ping` and `Okta`) may already provide configurable rate limiting. Rate limiting of
Login MFA paths are enforced by default in Vault 1.10.1 and above.

Login MFA can be configured to secure further authenticating to an auth method. To enable login
MFA, an MFA method needs to be configured. Please see [Login MFA API](/vault/api-docs/secret/identity/mfa) for details
on how to configure an MFA method. Once an MFA method is configured, an operator can configure an MFA enforcement using the returned unique MFA method ID.
Please see [Login MFA Enforcement API](/vault/api-docs/secret/identity/mfa/login-enforcement)
for details on how to configure an MFA enforcement config. MFA could be enforced for an entity, a group of
entities, a specific auth method accessor, or an auth method type. A login request that matches
any MFA enforcement restrictions is subject to further MFA validation,
such as a one-time passcode, before being authenticated.

There are two ways to validate a login request that is subject to MFA validation.

### Single-Phase login

In the Single-phase login, the required MFA information is embedded in a login request using
the `X-Vault-MFA` header. In this case, the MFA validation is done
as a part of the login request.

MFA credentials are retrieved from the `X-Vault-MFA` HTTP header. Before Vault 1.13.0, the format of
the header is `mfa_method_id[:passcode]` for TOTP, Okta, and PingID. However, for Duo, it is `mfa_method_id[:passcode=<passcode>]`.
The item in the `[]` is optional. From Vault 1.13.0, the format is consistent for all supported MFA methods, and one can use either of the above two formats.
If there are multiple MFA methods that need to be validated, a user can pass in multiple `X-Vault-MFA` HTTP headers.

#### Sample request

```shell-session
$ curl \
    --header "X-Vault-Token: ..." \
    --header "X-Vault-MFA: d16fd3c2-50de-0b9b-eed3-0301dadeca10:695452" \
    http://127.0.0.1:8200/v1/auth/userpass/login/alice
```

If an MFA method does not require a passcode, the login request MFA header only contains the method ID.

```shell-session
 $ curl \
     --header "X-Vault-Token: ..." \
     --header "X-Vault-MFA: d16fd3c2-50de-0b9b-eed3-0301dadeca10" \
     http://127.0.0.1:8200/v1/auth/userpass/login/alice
```

Starting in Vault 1.13.0, an operator can configure a name for an MFA method.
This name should be unique in the namespace in which the MFA method is configured.
The MFA method name can be used in the MFA header.

```shell-session
$ curl \
    --header "X-Vault-Token: ..." \
    --header "X-Vault-MFA: sample_mfa_method_name:695452" \
    http://127.0.0.1:8200/v1/auth/userpass/login/alice
```

In cases where the MFA method is configured in a specific namespace, the MFA method name should be prefixed with the namespace path.
Below shows an example where an MFA method is configured in `ns1`.

```shell-session
$ curl \
    --header "X-Vault-Token: ..." \
    --header "X-Vault-MFA: ns1/sample_mfa_method_name:695452" \
    http://127.0.0.1:8200/v1/auth/userpass/login/alice
```

### Two-Phase login

The more conventional and prevalent MFA method is a two-request mechanism, also referred to as Two-phase Login MFA.
In Two-phase login, the `X-Vault-MFA` header is not provided in the request. In this case, after sending a regular login request,
the user receives an auth response in which MFA requirements are included. MFA requirements contain an MFA request ID
which identifies the login request that needs validation. In addition, MFA requirements contain MFA constraints
that determine which MFA types should be used to validate the request, the corresponding method IDs, and
a boolean value showing whether the MFA method uses passcodes or not. MFA constraints form a nested map in MFA Requirement
and represent all MFA enforcements that match a login request. While the example below is for the userpass login,
note that this can affect the login response on any auth mount protected by MFA validation.

#### Sample Two-Phase login response

```json
{
  "request_id": "1044c151-13ea-1cf5-f6ed-000c42efd477",
  "lease_id": "",
  "lease_duration": 0,
  "renewable": false,
  "data": null,
  "warnings": [
    "A login request was issued that is subject to MFA validation. Please make sure to validate the login by sending another request to mfa/validate endpoint."
  ],
  "auth": {
    "client_token": "",
    "accessor": "",
    "policies": null,
    "token_policies": null,
    "identity_policies": null,
    "metadata": null,
    "orphan": false,
    "entity_id": "",
    "lease_duration": 0,
    "renewable": false,
    "mfa_requirement": {
      "mfa_request_id": "d0c9eec7-6921-8cc0-be62-202b289ef163",
      "mfa_constraints": {
        "enforcementConfigUserpass": {
          "any": [
            {
              "type": "totp",
              "id": "820997b3-110e-c251-7e8b-ff4aa428a6e1",
              "uses_passcode": true,
              "name": "sample_mfa_method_name",
            }
          ]
        }
      }
    }
  }
}
```

Note that the `uses_passcode` boolean value will always show true for TOTP, and false for Okta and PingID.
For Duo method, the value can be configured as part of the method configuration, using the `use_passcode` parameter.
Please see [Duo API](/vault/api-docs/secret/identity/mfa/duo) for details
on how to configure the boolean value for Duo.

To validate the MFA restricted login request, the user sends a second request to the [validate](/vault/api-docs/system/mfa/validate)
endpoint including the MFA request ID and MFA payload. MFA payload contains a map of methodIDs and their associated credentials.
If the configured MFA methods, such as PingID, Okta, and Duo, do not require a passcode, the associated
credentials will be a list with one empty string.

#### Sample payload

```json
{
  "mfa_request_id": "5879c74a-1418-1948-7be9-97b209d693a7",
  "mfa_payload": {
    "d16fd3c2-50de-0b9b-eed3-0301dadeca10": ["910201"]
  }
}
```

If an MFA method is configured in a namespace, the MFA method name prefixed with the namespace path can be used in the validation payload.

```json
{
  "mfa_request_id": "5879c74a-1418-1948-7be9-97b209d693a7",
  "mfa_payload": {
    "ns1/sample_mfa_method_name": ["910201"]
  }
}
```

#### Sample request

```shell-session
$ curl \
    --header "X-Vault-Token: ..." \
    --request POST \
    --data @payload.json \
    http://127.0.0.1:8200/v1/sys/mfa/validate
```

#### Sample CLI request

A user is also able to use the CLI write command to validate the login request.

```shell-session
$ vault write sys/mfa/validate -format=json @payload.json
```

#### Interactive CLI for login MFA

Vault supports an interactive way of authenticating to an auth method using CLI only if the
login request is subject to a single MFA method validation. In this situation, if the MFA method
is configured to use passcodes, after sending a regular login request, the user is prompted to
insert the passcode. Upon successful MFA validation, a client token is returned.
If the configured MFA methods, such as PingID, Okta, and Duo, do not require a passcode and have out of band
mechanisms for verifying the extra factor, the user is notified to check their authenticator application.
This alleviates a user from sending the second request separately to validate a login request.
To disable the interactive login experience, a user needs to pass in the `non-interactive` flag to the login request.

```shell-session
$ vault write -non-interactive sys/mfa/validate -format=json @payload.json
```

To get started with Login MFA, refer to the [Login MFA](/vault/tutorials/auth-methods/multi-factor-authentication) tutorial.

### Time-based One-time Password (TOTP)

Enable a Login MFA method to enforce TOTP on the LDAP auth method.

Authenticator applications are not consistent in their support of encryption algorithms. You should research the algorithms supported by your preferred authenticator app. The [Configure TOTP MFA Method documentation](/vault/api-docs/secret/identity/mfa/totp#algorithm) lists algorithms supported by the Login MFA TOTP method.

The following table lists the known authenticator applications and encryption algorithms compatibility. 

| Authenticator application             |  SHA256  |  SHA1   |
| ------------------------------------- | :------: | :-----: |
| Google Authenticator Chrome extension | &#10060; | &#9989; |
| Google Authenticator mobile app       | &#9989;  | &#9989; |
| Yubico Authenticator for Desktop      | &#9989;  | &#9989; |

#### Option 1: Configure TOTP for self-enrollment <EnterpriseAlert product="vault" inline />

Configure the TOTP method with `enable_self_enrollment=true` so the Vault web UI prompts users with a QR code when TOTP is not set up for their account.

```shell-session
$ vault write identity/mfa/method/totp \
   generate=true \
   issuer=Vault \
   period=30 \
   key_size=30 \
   algorithm=SHA256 \
   digits=6 \
   enable_self_enrollment=true
```

#### Option 2: Configure TOTP for admin-managed enrollment

Configure the Login MFA TOTP method and note down the resulting `method_id`.

```shell-session
$ vault write identity/mfa/method/totp \
   generate=true \
   issuer=Vault \
   period=30 \
   key_size=30 \
   algorithm=SHA256 \
   digits=6
```

Vault generates an `entity_id` for users after a successful login. Use the TOTP `method_id` and the `entity_id` of the target user to generate a QR code.

```shell-session
$ vault write -field=barcode \
   /identity/mfa/method/totp/admin-generate \
   method_id=$TOTP_METHOD_ID entity_id=$ENTITY_ID \
   | base64 -d > qr-code.png
```

#### Create login MFA enforcement

Capture the LDAP auth method accessor for use in creating a Login MFA enforcement.

```shell-session
$ vault auth list -format=json --detailed
```

Using the accessor from the previous step and a `method_id` apply the enforcement.

```shell-session
$ VAULT_TOKEN=root vault write /identity/mfa/login-enforcement/adtotp \
    mfa_method_ids=$TOTP_METHOD_ID \
    auth_method_accessors=$ACCESSOR
```

**Successful output example:**

<CodeBlockConfig hideClipboard>

```plaintext
Success! Data written to: identity/mfa/login-enforcement/adtotp
```

</CodeBlockConfig>

#### Login with LDAP auth method

Logging in with MFA enforcement will resemble the following:

```shell-session
$ vault login -method=ldap username=alice password='password!'
Enter the passphrase for methodID "01194a79-e2d9-c038-029d-79b0091cafd0" of type "totp":
```

#### TOTP passcode validation rate limit

Rate limiting of Login MFA paths are enforced by default in Vault 1.10.1 and above.
By default, Vault allows for 5 consecutive failed TOTP passcode validation.
This value can also be configured by adding `max_validation_attempts` to the TOTP configuration.
If the number of consecutive failed TOTP passcode validation exceeds the configured value, the user
needs to wait until a fresh TOTP passcode is available.

Commit message:

clarify only one enforcement can be configured for web UI self-enroll

content/vault/v1.21.x (rc)/content/docs/auth/login-mfa/index.mdx, after:

---
layout: docs
page_title: Set up login MFA
description: >-
  Use basic multi-factor authentication (MFA) with Vault to add an extra level
  of user verification to your authentication workflow for Vault.
---

# Set up login MFA

The underlying identity system in Vault supports multi-factor authentication
(MFA) for authenticating to an auth method using different authentication types.

MFA implementation                        | Required Vault edition
----------------------------------------- | -----------------------
Login MFA                                 | Vault Community
[Step-up MFA](/vault/docs/enterprise/mfa) | Vault Enterprise


## Login MFA types

MFA in Vault includes the following login types:

~> **NOTE:** The [Token](/vault/docs/auth/token) auth method cannot be configured with Vault's built-in Login MFA feature.

- `Time-based One-time Password (TOTP)` - If configured and enabled on a login path,
  this would require a TOTP passcode along with a Vault token to be presented
  while invoking the API login request. The passcode will be validated against the
  TOTP key present in the caller's identify in Vault. <EnterpriseAlert product="vault" inline /> 
  TOTP supports [self-enrollment](/vault/docs/enterprise/mfa#self-enroll-mfa-totp).

- `Okta` - If Okta push is configured and enabled on a login path, then the enrolled
  device of the user will receive a push notification to either approve or deny access
  to the API. The Okta username will be derived from the caller identity's
  alias.

- `Duo` - If Duo push is configured and enabled on a login path, then the enrolled
  device of the user will receive a push notification to either approve or deny access
  to the API. The Duo username will be derived from the caller identity's
  alias. Note that Duo could also be configured to use passcodes for authentication.

- `PingID` - If PingID push is configured and enabled on a login path, the
  enrolled device of the user will receive a push notification to either approve or deny
  access to the API. The PingID username will be derived from the caller
  identity's alias.

## Login MFA procedure

~> **NOTE:** Vault's built-in Login MFA feature does not protect against brute forcing of
TOTP passcodes by default. We recommend that per-client [rate limits](/vault/docs/concepts/resource-quotas)
are applied to the relevant login and/or mfa paths (e.g. `/sys/mfa/validate`). External MFA
methods (`Duo`, `Ping` and `Okta`) may already provide configurable rate limiting. Rate limiting of
Login MFA paths are enforced by default in Vault 1.10.1 and above.

Login MFA can be configured to secure further authenticating to an auth method. To enable login
MFA, an MFA method needs to be configured. Please see [Login MFA API](/vault/api-docs/secret/identity/mfa) for details
on how to configure an MFA method. Once an MFA method is configured, an operator can configure an MFA enforcement using the returned unique MFA method ID.
Please see [Login MFA Enforcement API](/vault/api-docs/secret/identity/mfa/login-enforcement)
for details on how to configure an MFA enforcement config. MFA could be enforced for an entity, a group of
entities, a specific auth method accessor, or an auth method type. A login request that matches
any MFA enforcement restrictions is subject to further MFA validation,
such as a one-time passcode, before being authenticated.

There are two ways to validate a login request that is subject to MFA validation.

### Single-Phase login

In the Single-phase login, the required MFA information is embedded in a login request using
the `X-Vault-MFA` header. In this case, the MFA validation is done
as a part of the login request.

MFA credentials are retrieved from the `X-Vault-MFA` HTTP header. Before Vault 1.13.0, the format of
the header is `mfa_method_id[:passcode]` for TOTP, Okta, and PingID. However, for Duo, it is `mfa_method_id[:passcode=<passcode>]`.
The item in the `[]` is optional. From Vault 1.13.0, the format is consistent for all supported MFA methods, and one can use either of the above two formats.
If there are multiple MFA methods that need to be validated, a user can pass in multiple `X-Vault-MFA` HTTP headers.

#### Sample request

```shell-session
$ curl \
    --header "X-Vault-Token: ..." \
    --header "X-Vault-MFA: d16fd3c2-50de-0b9b-eed3-0301dadeca10:695452" \
    http://127.0.0.1:8200/v1/auth/userpass/login/alice
```

If an MFA method does not require a passcode, the login request MFA header only contains the method ID.

```shell-session
 $ curl \
     --header "X-Vault-Token: ..." \
     --header "X-Vault-MFA: d16fd3c2-50de-0b9b-eed3-0301dadeca10" \
     http://127.0.0.1:8200/v1/auth/userpass/login/alice
```

Starting in Vault 1.13.0, an operator can configure a name for an MFA method.
This name should be unique in the namespace in which the MFA method is configured.
The MFA method name can be used in the MFA header.

```shell-session
$ curl \
    --header "X-Vault-Token: ..." \
    --header "X-Vault-MFA: sample_mfa_method_name:695452" \
    http://127.0.0.1:8200/v1/auth/userpass/login/alice
```

In cases where the MFA method is configured in a specific namespace, the MFA method name should be prefixed with the namespace path.
Below shows an example where an MFA method is configured in `ns1`.

```shell-session
$ curl \
    --header "X-Vault-Token: ..." \
    --header "X-Vault-MFA: ns1/sample_mfa_method_name:695452" \
    http://127.0.0.1:8200/v1/auth/userpass/login/alice
```

### Two-Phase login

The more conventional and prevalent MFA method is a two-request mechanism, also referred to as Two-phase Login MFA.
In Two-phase login, the `X-Vault-MFA` header is not provided in the request. In this case, after sending a regular login request,
the user receives an auth response in which MFA requirements are included. MFA requirements contain an MFA request ID
which identifies the login request that needs validation. In addition, MFA requirements contain MFA constraints
that determine which MFA types should be used to validate the request, the corresponding method IDs, and
a boolean value showing whether the MFA method uses passcodes or not. MFA constraints form a nested map in MFA Requirement
and represent all MFA enforcements that match a login request. While the example below is for the userpass login,
note that this can affect the login response on any auth mount protected by MFA validation.

#### Sample Two-Phase login response

```json
{
  "request_id": "1044c151-13ea-1cf5-f6ed-000c42efd477",
  "lease_id": "",
  "lease_duration": 0,
  "renewable": false,
  "data": null,
  "warnings": [
    "A login request was issued that is subject to MFA validation. Please make sure to validate the login by sending another request to mfa/validate endpoint."
  ],
  "auth": {
    "client_token": "",
    "accessor": "",
    "policies": null,
    "token_policies": null,
    "identity_policies": null,
    "metadata": null,
    "orphan": false,
    "entity_id": "",
    "lease_duration": 0,
    "renewable": false,
    "mfa_requirement": {
      "mfa_request_id": "d0c9eec7-6921-8cc0-be62-202b289ef163",
      "mfa_constraints": {
        "enforcementConfigUserpass": {
          "any": [
            {
              "type": "totp",
              "id": "820997b3-110e-c251-7e8b-ff4aa428a6e1",
              "uses_passcode": true,
              "name": "sample_mfa_method_name",
            }
          ]
        }
      }
    }
  }
}
```

Note that the `uses_passcode` boolean value will always show true for TOTP, and false for Okta and PingID.
For Duo method, the value can be configured as part of the method configuration, using the `use_passcode` parameter.
Please see [Duo API](/vault/api-docs/secret/identity/mfa/duo) for details
on how to configure the boolean value for Duo.

To validate the MFA restricted login request, the user sends a second request to the [validate](/vault/api-docs/system/mfa/validate)
endpoint including the MFA request ID and MFA payload. MFA payload contains a map of methodIDs and their associated credentials.
If the configured MFA methods, such as PingID, Okta, and Duo, do not require a passcode, the associated
credentials will be a list with one empty string.

#### Sample payload

```json
{
  "mfa_request_id": "5879c74a-1418-1948-7be9-97b209d693a7",
  "mfa_payload": {
    "d16fd3c2-50de-0b9b-eed3-0301dadeca10": ["910201"]
  }
}
```

If an MFA method is configured in a namespace, the MFA method name prefixed with the namespace path can be used in the validation payload.

```json
{
  "mfa_request_id": "5879c74a-1418-1948-7be9-97b209d693a7",
  "mfa_payload": {
    "ns1/sample_mfa_method_name": ["910201"]
  }
}
```

#### Sample request

```shell-session
$ curl \
    --header "X-Vault-Token: ..." \
    --request POST \
    --data @payload.json \
    http://127.0.0.1:8200/v1/sys/mfa/validate
```

#### Sample CLI request

A user is also able to use the CLI write command to validate the login request.

```shell-session
$ vault write sys/mfa/validate -format=json @payload.json
```

#### Interactive CLI for login MFA

Vault supports an interactive way of authenticating to an auth method using CLI only if the
login request is subject to a single MFA method validation. In this situation, if the MFA method
is configured to use passcodes, after sending a regular login request, the user is prompted to
insert the passcode. Upon successful MFA validation, a client token is returned.
If the configured MFA methods, such as PingID, Okta, and Duo, do not require a passcode and have out of band
mechanisms for verifying the extra factor, the user is notified to check their authenticator application.
This alleviates a user from sending the second request separately to validate a login request.
To disable the interactive login experience, a user needs to pass in the `non-interactive` flag to the login request.

```shell-session
$ vault write -non-interactive sys/mfa/validate -format=json @payload.json
```

To get started with Login MFA, refer to the [Login MFA](/vault/tutorials/auth-methods/multi-factor-authentication) tutorial.

### Time-based One-time Password (TOTP)

Enable a Login MFA method to enforce TOTP on the LDAP auth method.

Authenticator applications are not consistent in their support of encryption algorithms. You should research the algorithms supported by your preferred authenticator app. The [Configure TOTP MFA Method documentation](/vault/api-docs/secret/identity/mfa/totp#algorithm) lists algorithms supported by the Login MFA TOTP method.

The following table lists the known authenticator applications and encryption algorithms compatibility. 

| Authenticator application             |  SHA256  |  SHA1   |
| ------------------------------------- | :------: | :-----: |
| Google Authenticator Chrome extension | &#10060; | &#9989; |
| Google Authenticator mobile app       | &#9989;  | &#9989; |
| Yubico Authenticator for Desktop      | &#9989;  | &#9989; |

#### Option 1: Configure TOTP for self-enrollment <EnterpriseAlert product="vault" inline />

To make the Vault GUI prompt users with a QR code if they do not have TOTP setup for their account:

1. Set `enable_self_enrollment` to `true` in the TOTP method configuration.

    ```shell-session
    $ vault write identity/mfa/method/totp \
      generate=true \
      issuer=Vault \
      period=30 \
      key_size=30 \
      algorithm=SHA256 \
      digits=6 \
      enable_self_enrollment=true
    ```

1. Ensure you only have one MFA login enforcement enabled. You can associate
   multiple MFA methods with the enforcement rule, but you can only have one
   rule active at a time to allow self-enrollment.

#### Option 2: Configure TOTP for admin-managed enrollment

Configure the Login MFA TOTP method and note down the resulting `method_id`.

```shell-session
$ vault write identity/mfa/method/totp \
   generate=true \
   issuer=Vault \
   period=30 \
   key_size=30 \
   algorithm=SHA256 \
   digits=6
```

Vault generates an `entity_id` for users after a successful login. Use the TOTP `method_id` and the `entity_id` of the target user to generate a QR code.

```shell-session
$ vault write -field=barcode \
   /identity/mfa/method/totp/admin-generate \
   method_id=$TOTP_METHOD_ID entity_id=$ENTITY_ID \
   | base64 -d > qr-code.png
```

#### Create login MFA enforcement

Capture the LDAP auth method accessor for use in creating a Login MFA enforcement.

```shell-session
$ vault auth list -format=json --detailed
```

Using the accessor from the previous step and a `method_id` apply the enforcement.

```shell-session
$ VAULT_TOKEN=root vault write /identity/mfa/login-enforcement/adtotp \
    mfa_method_ids=$TOTP_METHOD_ID \
    auth_method_accessors=$ACCESSOR
```

**Successful output example:**

<CodeBlockConfig hideClipboard>

```plaintext
Success! Data written to: identity/mfa/login-enforcement/adtotp
```

</CodeBlockConfig>

#### Login with LDAP auth method

Logging in with MFA enforcement will resemble the following:

```shell-session
$ vault login -method=ldap username=alice password='password!'
Enter the passphrase for methodID "01194a79-e2d9-c038-029d-79b0091cafd0" of type "totp":
```

#### TOTP passcode validation rate limit

Rate limiting of Login MFA paths are enforced by default in Vault 1.10.1 and above.
By default, Vault allows for 5 consecutive failed TOTP passcode validation.
This value can also be configured by adding `max_validation_attempts` to the TOTP configuration.
If the number of consecutive failed TOTP passcode validation exceeds the configured value, the user
needs to wait until a fresh TOTP passcode is available.
