content/nomad/v1.11.x/content/commands/job/tag/apply.mdx, before:

---
layout: docs
page_title: 'nomad job tag apply command reference'
description: |
  The `nomad job tag apply` command saves a job version tag.
---

# `nomad job tag apply` command reference

Use `job tag apply` to create or modify a version tag.

@include 'version/tag-reason.mdx'

## Usage

```plaintext
nomad job tag apply [options] <job_id>
```

## Options

- `name`: Specifies the name of the tag. Must be unique per job.
- `description`: If set, specifies a description for the tag.
- `version`: If set, specifies the version of the job to tag. If not provided,
  Nomad tags the latest version of the job.

## Examples

This example tags the latest version of the job `hello-world`.

```shell-session
$ nomad job tag apply -name "golden-version" \
		-description "The version we can roll back to." \
    hello-world
```

This example tags version zero of the job `hello-world`.

```shell-session
$ nomad job tag apply -version 0 \
      -name "golden-version" \
      hello-world
```

## General options

@include 'general_options.mdx'

Commit message:

Nomad: adding policy & acl updates for new job capabilities (#1665)
* add new fine-grain capabilites to policy page

* add additional ACL capabilities to appropriate commands

* add additional ACL capabilities to appropriate api-docs

* update deregister-job capability to specify gc behavior

* make sentinel permission addition explicit in api-docs

content/nomad/v1.11.x/content/commands/job/tag/apply.mdx, after:

---
layout: docs
page_title: 'nomad job tag apply command reference'
description: |
  The `nomad job tag apply` command saves a job version tag.
---

# `nomad job tag apply` command reference

Use `job tag apply` to create or modify a version tag.

@include 'version/tag-reason.mdx'

## Usage

```plaintext
nomad job tag apply [options] <job_id>
```

When ACLs are enabled, this command requires a token with either the
`submit-job` or `tag-job-version` capability for the job's namespace. 

## Options

- `name`: Specifies the name of the tag. Must be unique per job.
- `description`: If set, specifies a description for the tag.
- `version`: If set, specifies the version of the job to tag. If not provided,
  Nomad tags the latest version of the job.

## Examples

This example tags the latest version of the job `hello-world`.

```shell-session
$ nomad job tag apply -name "golden-version" \
		-description "The version we can roll back to." \
    hello-world
```

This example tags version zero of the job `hello-world`.

```shell-session
$ nomad job tag apply -version 0 \
      -name "golden-version" \
      hello-world
```

## General options

@include 'general_options.mdx'
