content/boundary/v0.20.x/content/docs/deploy/self-managed/configure-controllers.mdx, before:

---
layout: docs
page_title: Configure controllers
description: >-
 Configure Boundary controllers for a self-managed deployment, including TLS, KMS, and database parameters. Start the service, authenticate, and manage resources.
---

# Configure controllers

Refer to the following sections to configure your Boundary controllers.

## Prepare TLS certificates

HashiCorp recommends that the Boundary controller nodes handle TLS using PKI for user connections.
Further, we strongly recommend that you use certificates that an appropriate certificate authority (CA) generated and signed.

To use TLS, you must have two files on each Boundary controller node.
You may have to create a new directory to store the certificate material at `/etc/boundary.d/tls`.
Place the files in the following paths:

- `/etc/boundary.d/tls/boundary-cert.pem`

    Place the Boundary TLS certificate with a Common Name (CN) and Subject Alternate Name (SAN) that matches your planned primary DNS record in this path so that the Boundary controllers and any SANs can access it.

- `/etc/boundary.d/tls/boundary-key.pem`

    Place the Boundary TLS certificate's private key in this path.

If you do not generate unique TLS key material for each node, you should securely distribute the key material to each of the Boundary controller nodes.

## Prepare KMS keys

Boundary controllers require the two following different cryptographic keys:

- **Root key**: The root KMS key acts as a KEK (Key Encrypting Key) for the scope-specific KEKs, which are also referred to as the scope's root keys.
When you create a scope, Boundary also creates the root KEK and the various DEKs (Data Encryption Keys).
It encrypts the DEKs using the scope's KEK, and then encrypts the KEK with the KMS key marked for the root purpose.
- **Recovery key**: You use the recovery KMS key to authenticate Boundary client rescue and recovery operation workflows.
The recovery key includes a nonce and creation time as an encrypted payload.
Boundary formats the payload as a token and sends it to the controller.
The time and nonce ensure that an adversary cannot replay a value, and also ensure that a client must individually authenticate each operation, so that revoking access to the KMS has an immediate result.

The following keys are optional:

- **Worker-auth key (Optional)**: The controller and worker share the worker-auth KMS key to authenticate a worker to the controller.
If a worker uses PKI authentication, this key is unnecessary.
- **BSR key (Optional)**: Session recording requires the BSR KMS key.
Boundary uses the BSR key for encrypting data and checking the integrity of recordings.
If you do not add a BSR key to your controller configuration, you receive an error when you try to enable session recording.

There are other optional KMS keys that you can configure for different encryption scenarios.
These scenarios include Boundary worker PKI auth encryption and Boundary worker or controller configuration encryption.
Refer to [Data encryption in Boundary](/boundary/docs/secure/encryption/data-encryption) for more information.

<Note>
There are two types of Boundary workers, distinguished by the method by which they authenticate with the Boundary controllers.
One worker uses a PKI exchange to authenticate with the controllers. The other uses a KMS key for authentication by both the worker and the controller.
You use the Worker-auth key listed above to enable KMS worker authentication.
</Note>

HashiCorp strongly recommends that you use either Vault Transit or your cloud provider's key management system.
Refer to the [Vault Transit](/vault/docs/secrets/transit) documentation or your cloud provider's key management documentation for more information.

After you create the keys in Vault or the key management system of your choice, you can prepare the PostgreSQL database.

## Prepare the database

Boundary manages its state and configuration in a Relational Database Management System (RDBMS), PostgreSQL.
You should create, set up, and make the PostgreSQL database accessible to the Boundary controller nodes before you configure the nodes.

Refer to the [Database recommendations](/boundary/docs/architecture/system-requirements#database-recommendations) documentation for examples of cloud managed PostgreSQL databases.

## Create the controller configuration

Once you have configured the following, you can create the controller configuration:

- At least three virtual machines with Boundary installed on them
- At least one TLS certificate and key to distribute to the virtual machines for TLS communication
- KMS keys to use for at least root and recovery operations
- A PostgreSQL database to manage configuration and state

You must complete the following controller configuration for each of the Boundary controller nodes.

### Base controller configuration

The core required values for a Boundary controller configuration include the following:

- `listener` blocks for `api`, `cluster`, and `ops`
- A `kms` block
- `disable_mlock`
- A `controller` block

When you install Boundary from the HashiCorp Linux Repository, it installs some example configuration files under `/etc/boundary.d/`.
Run the following commands to rename the example configuration files:

1. `sudo mv boundary.hcl boundary.hcl.old`
1. `sudo mv controller.hcl controller.hcl.old`
1. `sudo mv worker.hcl worker.hcl.old`

HashiCorp recommends that you use either the `env://` or `file://` notation in the configuration files to securely provide secret configuration components to the Boundary controller binaries.
The following controller configuration example uses `env://` to declare the PostgreSQL connect strings as well as secure the AWS KMS configuration items.

When you install the Boundary binary using a package manager, it includes a unit file that configures an environment file at `/etc/boundary.d/boundary.env`.
You can use this file to set the sensitive values used to configure the Boundary controllers and workers.
The following is an example of a configuration using this environment file:

<CodeBlockConfig lineNumbers filename="/etc/boundary.d/boundary.env">

```shell-session
POSTGRESQL_CONNECTION_STRING=postgresql://boundary:boundary@postgres.yourdomain.com:5432/boundary
AWS_ACCESS_KEY_ID=AKIAIOSFODNN7EXAMPLE
AWS_SECRET_ACCESS_KEY=wJalrXUtnFEMI/K7MDENG/bPxRfiCYEXAMPLEKEY
```

</CodeBlockConfig>

<Note>

In the example above, the proper IAM roles and permissions for the given `AWS_ACCESS_KEY` and `AWS_SECRET_ACCESS_KEY` must be in place so that Boundary can use them to access the different KMS keys.

</Note>

Next, populate the `controller.hcl` file with any relevant configuration information.
The following example configuration file is a good starting point for a production Boundary controller installation.
It defines the three `listener` blocks, two unique `kms` blocks that are specific to AWS (as an example), the `disable_mlock` value, and the `controller` block.

<CodeBlockConfig lineNumbers filename="/etc/boundary.d/controller.hcl">

```hcl
# disable memory from being swapped to disk
disable_mlock = true

# API listener configuration block
listener "tcp" {
  # Should be the address of the NIC that the controller server will be reached on
  # Use 0.0.0.0 to listen on all interfaces
  address = "0.0.0.0:9200"
  # The purpose of this listener block
  purpose = "api"

  # TLS Configuration
  tls_disable   = false
  tls_cert_file = "/etc/boundary.d/tls/boundary-cert.pem"
  tls_key_file  = "/etc/boundary.d/tls/boundary-key.pem"

  # Uncomment to enable CORS for the Admin UI. Be sure to set the allowed origin(s)
  # to appropriate values.
  #cors_enabled = true
  #cors_allowed_origins = ["https://yourcorp.yourdomain.com", "serve://boundary"]
}

# Data-plane listener configuration block (used for worker coordination)
listener "tcp" {
  # Should be the IP of the NIC that the worker will connect on
  address = "0.0.0.0:9201"
  # The purpose of this listener
  purpose = "cluster"
}

# Ops listener for operations like health checks for load balancers
listener "tcp" {
  # Should be the address of the interface where your external systems'
  # (eg: Load-Balancer and metrics collectors) will connect on.
  address = "0.0.0.0:9203"
  # The purpose of this listener block
  purpose = "ops"

  tls_disable   = false
  tls_cert_file = "/etc/boundary.d/tls/boundary-cert.pem"
  tls_key_file  = "/etc/boundary.d/tls/boundary-key.pem"
}

# Controller configuration block
controller {
  # This name attr must be unique across all controller instances if running in HA mode
  name = "boundary-controller-1"
  description = "Boundary controller number one"

  # This is the public hostname or IP where the workers can reach the
  # controller. This should typically be a load balancer address
  public_cluster_addr = "example-cluster-lb.example.com"

  # Enterprise license file, can also be the raw value or env:// value
  license = "file:///path/to/license/file.hclic"

  # After receiving a shutdown signal, Boundary will wait 10s before initiating the shutdown process.
  graceful_shutdown_wait_duration = "10s"

  # Database URL for postgres. This is set in boundary.env and
  #consumed via the “env://” notation.
  database {
      url = "env://POSTGRESQL_CONNECTION_STRING"
  }
}

# Events (logging) configuration. This
# configures logging for ALL events to both
# stderr and a file at /var/log/boundary/controller.log
events {
  audit_enabled       = true
  sysevents_enabled   = true
  observations_enable = true
  sink "stderr" {
    name = "all-events"
    description = "All events sent to stderr"
    event_types = ["*"]
    format = "cloudevents-json"
  }
  sink {
    name = "file-sink"
    description = "All events sent to a file"
    event_types = ["*"]
    format = "cloudevents-json"
    file {
      path = "/var/log/boundary"
      file_name = "controller.log"
    }
    audit_config {
      audit_filter_overrides {
        sensitive = "redact"
        secret    = "redact"
      }
    }
  }
}

# Root KMS Key (managed by AWS KMS in this example)
# Keep in mind that sensitive values are provided via ENV VARS
# in this example, such as access_key and secret_key
kms "awskms" {
  purpose    = "root"
  region     = "us-east-1"
  kms_key_id = "19ec80b0-dfdd-4d97-8164-c6examplekey"
  endpoint   = "https://vpce-0e1bb1852241f8cc6-pzi0do8n.kms.us-east-1.vpce.amazonaws.com"
}

# Recovery KMS Key
kms "awskms" {
  purpose    = "recovery"
  region     = "us-east-1"
  kms_key_id = "19ec80b0-dfdd-4d97-8164-c6examplekey2"
  endpoint   = "https://vpce-0e1bb1852241f8cc6-pzi0do8n.kms.us-east-1.vpce.amazonaws.com"
}

# Worker-Auth KMS Key (optional, only needed if you use
# KMS authenticated workers)
kms "awskms" {
  purpose    = "worker-auth"
  region     = "us-east-1"
  kms_key_id = "19ec80b0-dfdd-4d97-8164-c6examplekey3"
  endpoint   = "https://vpce-0e1bb1852241f8cc6-pzi0do8n.kms.us-east-1.vpce.amazonaws.com"
}

# BSR KMS Key (optional, only needed if you use the
# session recording feature)
kms "awskms" {
  purpose    = "bsr"
  region     = "us-east-1"
  kms_key_id = "19ec80b0-dfdd-4d97-8164-c6examplekey4"
  endpoint   = "https://vpce-0e1bb1852241f8cc6-pzi0do8n.kms.us-east-1.vpce.amazonaws.com"
}
```
</CodeBlockConfig>

Refer to the list below for explanations of the parameters used in the example above:

- `disable mlock (bool: false)` - Disables the server from executing the `mlock` syscall, which prevents memory swap to the disk.
Preventing memory swap is fine for local development and testing.
However, HashiCorp does not recommend using it for production unless the systems running Boundary use encrypted swap or do not use swap at all.
Boundary only supports memory locking on UNIX-like systems that support `mlock()` syscall like Linux and FreeBSD.

   On Linux, to give the Boundary executable the ability to use `mlock` syscall without running the process as root, run the following command:

   `sudo setcap cap_ipc_lock=+ep $(readlink -f $(which boundary))`

   If you use a Linux distribution with a modern version of systemd, you can add the following directive to the **"[Service]"** configuration section:

   `LimitMEMLOCK=infinity`

- `listener` - Configures the listeners on which Boundary serves traffic (API cluster and proxy).
- `controller` - Configures the controller.
If present, `boundary server` starts a controller subprocess.
- `events` - Configures event-specific parameters.

   The example events configuration above is exhaustive and writes all events to both `stderr` and a file.
   This configuration may or may not work for your organization's logging solution.

- `kms` - Configures KMS blocks for [various purposes](/boundary/docs/secure/encryption/data-encryption).

   Refer to the links below for configuration information for the different cloud KMS blocks:

   - [AWS](/boundary/docs/configuration/kms/awskms)
   - [Azure](/boundary/docs/configuration/kms/azurekeyvault)
   - [GCP](/boundary/docs/configuration/kms/gcpckms)
   - [OCI](/boundary/docs/configuration/kms/ocikms)
   - [AliCloud](/boundary/docs/configuration/kms/alicloudkms)
   - [Vault Transit](/boundary/docs/configuration/kms/transit)

Refer to the documentation for additional [top-level configuration options](/boundary/docs/configuration) and additional [controller-specific options](/boundary/docs/configuration/controller).

## Initialize the database

Before you can start Boundary, you must initialize the database from one Boundary controller.
Initialization is a one-time operation that executes the required database migrations for the Boundary cluster to operate.

```shell-session
boundary database init -config /etc/boundary.d/controller.hcl
```

Unless you configure it not to, Boundary automatically generates a number of resources to make getting started easier. It automatically generates default scopes, auth methods, user, account, and targets. These
resources, however, are not required. You can add the following flags to skip creating these initial resources:

```shell-session
boundary database init \
   -skip-auth-method-creation \
   -skip-host-resources-creation \
   -skip-scopes-creation \
   -skip-target-creation \
   -config /etc/boundary.d/controller.hcl
```

Use the following command to view the help for additional initialization options:

```shell-session
boundary database init -h
```

## Start the Boundary service

When the configuration files are in place on each Boundary controller, you can proceed to enable and start the binary on each of the Boundary controller nodes using `systemd`.
Run the following commands to start the service:

1. `sudo systemctl enable boundary`
1. `sudo systemctl start boundary`

## Manually configure systemd

If you [installed Boundary manually](/boundary/docs/deploy/self-managed/install#manually-install-boundary), you can configure Boundary to run as a service under systemd. 

To do this, you should:

1. Check the location of your controller configuration file on disk, such as `/etc/boundary.d/controller.hcl` in the example on this page.
1. Configure the user and group the Boundary service runs under.
1. Set up the systemd unit file.
1. Start the Boundary service.

### Configure the user and group

HashiCorp recommends running Boundary as a non-root user and managing the Boundary process running under systemd with this user.

Add the `boundary` system user and group to ensure you have a no-login user that owns and runs Boundary:

```shell-session
$ sudo adduser --system --group boundary || true ;
$ sudo chown boundary:boundary /etc/boundary.d/controller.hcl ;
$ sudo chown boundary:boundary /usr/local/bin/boundary
```

<Tip>

Make sure to [initialize the database](#initialize-the-database) before starting the service. If another controller or worker has already done this, you will receive an expected error stating that the database has already been initialized.

</Tip>

### Set up the unit file

Create a new unit file, such as `/etc/systemd/system/boundary-controller.service`. Add the following code to the file. Update the path to your `controller.hcl` file on the `ExecStart` line, and the user and group as needed.

<CodeBlockConfig filename="/etc/systemd/system/boundary-controller.service">

```bash
[Unit]
Description="HashiCorp Boundary controller"
Documentation=https://developer.hashicorp.com/boundary/docs
Requires=network-online.target
After=network-online.target
ConditionFileNotEmpty=/etc/boundary.d/controller.hcl
StartLimitIntervalSec=60
StartLimitBurst=3

[Service]
User=boundary
Group=boundary
ProtectSystem=full
ProtectHome=read-only
PrivateTmp=yes
PrivateDevices=yes
SecureBits=keep-caps
AmbientCapabilities=CAP_IPC_LOCK
CapabilityBoundingSet=CAP_SYSLOG CAP_IPC_LOCK
NoNewPrivileges=yes
ExecStart=/usr/bin/boundary server -config=/etc/boundary.d/controller.hcl
ExecReload=/bin/kill --signal HUP $MAINPID
KillMode=process
KillSignal=SIGINT
Restart=on-failure
RestartSec=5
TimeoutStopSec=30
LimitNOFILE=65536
LimitMEMLOCK=infinity

[Install]
WantedBy=multi-user.target
EOF
```

</CodeBlockConfig>

### Start the Boundary service

Set the appropriate permissions on the unit file:

```shell-session
$ sudo chmod 664 /etc/systemd/system/boundary-controller.service
```

Reload the systemd daemon, and enable and start the Boundary service:

```shell-session
$ sudo systemctl daemon-reload ;
$ sudo systemctl enable boundary-controller ;
$ sudo systemctl start boundary-controller
```

## Authenticate and manage resources

Upon logging in to Boundary for the first time, HashiCorp recommends creating an admin user for the global and project level scopes to manage Boundary.
Creating an admin user allows you to configure targets within those scopes and manage them.

HashiCorp recommends that you use the [KMS recovery workflow](/boundary/docs/deploy/self-managed/initialize#log-in-with-recovery-kms) to log in to Boundary for the first time.
Refer to [Creating your first login account](/boundary/docs/deploy/self-managed/initialize#create-your-first-login-account) to learn about setting up your first auth method, user, account, and role to log in to Boundary going forward without the recovery KMS workflow.

## Next steps

After you configure the controller, you should:

1. [Deploy workers](/boundary/docs/deploy/self-managed/deploy-workers)
1. [Initialize Boundary](/boundary/docs/deploy/self-managed/initialize)
1. [Install the Boundary Clients](/boundary/docs/deploy/self-managed/install-clients)

Commit message:

fixes some formatting, adds optional to section title

content/boundary/v0.20.x/content/docs/deploy/self-managed/configure-controllers.mdx, after:

---
layout: docs
page_title: Configure controllers
description: >-
 Configure Boundary controllers for a self-managed deployment, including TLS, KMS, and database parameters. Start the service, authenticate, and manage resources.
---

# Configure controllers

Refer to the following sections to configure your Boundary controllers.

## Prepare TLS certificates

HashiCorp recommends that the Boundary controller nodes handle TLS using PKI for user connections.
Further, we strongly recommend that you use certificates that an appropriate certificate authority (CA) generated and signed.

To use TLS, you must have two files on each Boundary controller node.
You may have to create a new directory to store the certificate material at `/etc/boundary.d/tls`.
Place the files in the following paths:

- `/etc/boundary.d/tls/boundary-cert.pem`

    Place the Boundary TLS certificate with a Common Name (CN) and Subject Alternate Name (SAN) that matches your planned primary DNS record in this path so that the Boundary controllers and any SANs can access it.

- `/etc/boundary.d/tls/boundary-key.pem`

    Place the Boundary TLS certificate's private key in this path.

If you do not generate unique TLS key material for each node, you should securely distribute the key material to each of the Boundary controller nodes.

## Prepare KMS keys

Boundary controllers require the two following different cryptographic keys:

- **Root key**: The root KMS key acts as a KEK (Key Encrypting Key) for the scope-specific KEKs, which are also referred to as the scope's root keys.
When you create a scope, Boundary also creates the root KEK and the various DEKs (Data Encryption Keys).
It encrypts the DEKs using the scope's KEK, and then encrypts the KEK with the KMS key marked for the root purpose.
- **Recovery key**: You use the recovery KMS key to authenticate Boundary client rescue and recovery operation workflows.
The recovery key includes a nonce and creation time as an encrypted payload.
Boundary formats the payload as a token and sends it to the controller.
The time and nonce ensure that an adversary cannot replay a value, and also ensure that a client must individually authenticate each operation, so that revoking access to the KMS has an immediate result.

The following keys are optional:

- **Worker-auth key (Optional)**: The controller and worker share the worker-auth KMS key to authenticate a worker to the controller.
If a worker uses PKI authentication, this key is unnecessary.
- **BSR key (Optional)**: Session recording requires the BSR KMS key.
Boundary uses the BSR key for encrypting data and checking the integrity of recordings.
If you do not add a BSR key to your controller configuration, you receive an error when you try to enable session recording.

There are other optional KMS keys that you can configure for different encryption scenarios.
These scenarios include Boundary worker PKI auth encryption and Boundary worker or controller configuration encryption.
Refer to [Data encryption in Boundary](/boundary/docs/secure/encryption/data-encryption) for more information.

<Note>
There are two types of Boundary workers, distinguished by the method by which they authenticate with the Boundary controllers.
One worker uses a PKI exchange to authenticate with the controllers. The other uses a KMS key for authentication by both the worker and the controller.
You use the Worker-auth key listed above to enable KMS worker authentication.
</Note>

HashiCorp strongly recommends that you use either Vault Transit or your cloud provider's key management system.
Refer to the [Vault Transit](/vault/docs/secrets/transit) documentation or your cloud provider's key management documentation for more information.

After you create the keys in Vault or the key management system of your choice, you can prepare the PostgreSQL database.

## Prepare the database

Boundary manages its state and configuration in a Relational Database Management System (RDBMS), PostgreSQL.
You should create, set up, and make the PostgreSQL database accessible to the Boundary controller nodes before you configure the nodes.

Refer to the [Database recommendations](/boundary/docs/architecture/system-requirements#database-recommendations) documentation for examples of cloud managed PostgreSQL databases.

## Create the controller configuration

Once you have configured the following, you can create the controller configuration:

- At least three virtual machines with Boundary installed on them
- At least one TLS certificate and key to distribute to the virtual machines for TLS communication
- KMS keys to use for at least root and recovery operations
- A PostgreSQL database to manage configuration and state

You must complete the following controller configuration for each of the Boundary controller nodes.

### Base controller configuration

The core required values for a Boundary controller configuration include the following:

- `listener` blocks for `api`, `cluster`, and `ops`
- A `kms` block
- `disable_mlock`
- A `controller` block

When you install Boundary from the HashiCorp Linux Repository, it installs some example configuration files under `/etc/boundary.d/`.
Run the following commands to rename the example configuration files:

1. `sudo mv boundary.hcl boundary.hcl.old`
1. `sudo mv controller.hcl controller.hcl.old`
1. `sudo mv worker.hcl worker.hcl.old`

HashiCorp recommends that you use either the `env://` or `file://` notation in the configuration files to securely provide secret configuration components to the Boundary controller binaries.
The following controller configuration example uses `env://` to declare the PostgreSQL connect strings as well as secure the AWS KMS configuration items.

When you install the Boundary binary using a package manager, it includes a unit file that configures an environment file at `/etc/boundary.d/boundary.env`.
You can use this file to set the sensitive values used to configure the Boundary controllers and workers.
The following is an example of a configuration using this environment file:

<CodeBlockConfig lineNumbers filename="/etc/boundary.d/boundary.env">

```shell-session
POSTGRESQL_CONNECTION_STRING=postgresql://boundary:boundary@postgres.yourdomain.com:5432/boundary
AWS_ACCESS_KEY_ID=AKIAIOSFODNN7EXAMPLE
AWS_SECRET_ACCESS_KEY=wJalrXUtnFEMI/K7MDENG/bPxRfiCYEXAMPLEKEY
```

</CodeBlockConfig>

<Note>

In the example above, the proper IAM roles and permissions for the given `AWS_ACCESS_KEY` and `AWS_SECRET_ACCESS_KEY` must be in place so that Boundary can use them to access the different KMS keys.

</Note>

Next, populate the `controller.hcl` file with any relevant configuration information.
The following example configuration file is a good starting point for a production Boundary controller installation.
It defines the three `listener` blocks, two unique `kms` blocks that are specific to AWS (as an example), the `disable_mlock` value, and the `controller` block.

<CodeBlockConfig lineNumbers filename="/etc/boundary.d/controller.hcl">

```hcl
# disable memory from being swapped to disk
disable_mlock = true

# API listener configuration block
listener "tcp" {
  # Should be the address of the NIC that the controller server will be reached on
  # Use 0.0.0.0 to listen on all interfaces
  address = "0.0.0.0:9200"
  # The purpose of this listener block
  purpose = "api"

  # TLS Configuration
  tls_disable   = false
  tls_cert_file = "/etc/boundary.d/tls/boundary-cert.pem"
  tls_key_file  = "/etc/boundary.d/tls/boundary-key.pem"

  # Uncomment to enable CORS for the Admin UI. Be sure to set the allowed origin(s)
  # to appropriate values.
  #cors_enabled = true
  #cors_allowed_origins = ["https://yourcorp.yourdomain.com", "serve://boundary"]
}

# Data-plane listener configuration block (used for worker coordination)
listener "tcp" {
  # Should be the IP of the NIC that the worker will connect on
  address = "0.0.0.0:9201"
  # The purpose of this listener
  purpose = "cluster"
}

# Ops listener for operations like health checks for load balancers
listener "tcp" {
  # Should be the address of the interface where your external systems'
  # (eg: Load-Balancer and metrics collectors) will connect on.
  address = "0.0.0.0:9203"
  # The purpose of this listener block
  purpose = "ops"

  tls_disable   = false
  tls_cert_file = "/etc/boundary.d/tls/boundary-cert.pem"
  tls_key_file  = "/etc/boundary.d/tls/boundary-key.pem"
}

# Controller configuration block
controller {
  # This name attr must be unique across all controller instances if running in HA mode
  name = "boundary-controller-1"
  description = "Boundary controller number one"

  # This is the public hostname or IP where the workers can reach the
  # controller. This should typically be a load balancer address
  public_cluster_addr = "example-cluster-lb.example.com"

  # Enterprise license file, can also be the raw value or env:// value
  license = "file:///path/to/license/file.hclic"

  # After receiving a shutdown signal, Boundary will wait 10s before initiating the shutdown process.
  graceful_shutdown_wait_duration = "10s"

  # Database URL for postgres. This is set in boundary.env and
  #consumed via the “env://” notation.
  database {
      url = "env://POSTGRESQL_CONNECTION_STRING"
  }
}

# Events (logging) configuration. This
# configures logging for ALL events to both
# stderr and a file at /var/log/boundary/controller.log
events {
  audit_enabled       = true
  sysevents_enabled   = true
  observations_enable = true
  sink "stderr" {
    name = "all-events"
    description = "All events sent to stderr"
    event_types = ["*"]
    format = "cloudevents-json"
  }
  sink {
    name = "file-sink"
    description = "All events sent to a file"
    event_types = ["*"]
    format = "cloudevents-json"
    file {
      path = "/var/log/boundary"
      file_name = "controller.log"
    }
    audit_config {
      audit_filter_overrides {
        sensitive = "redact"
        secret    = "redact"
      }
    }
  }
}

# Root KMS Key (managed by AWS KMS in this example)
# Keep in mind that sensitive values are provided via ENV VARS
# in this example, such as access_key and secret_key
kms "awskms" {
  purpose    = "root"
  region     = "us-east-1"
  kms_key_id = "19ec80b0-dfdd-4d97-8164-c6examplekey"
  endpoint   = "https://vpce-0e1bb1852241f8cc6-pzi0do8n.kms.us-east-1.vpce.amazonaws.com"
}

# Recovery KMS Key
kms "awskms" {
  purpose    = "recovery"
  region     = "us-east-1"
  kms_key_id = "19ec80b0-dfdd-4d97-8164-c6examplekey2"
  endpoint   = "https://vpce-0e1bb1852241f8cc6-pzi0do8n.kms.us-east-1.vpce.amazonaws.com"
}

# Worker-Auth KMS Key (optional, only needed if you use
# KMS authenticated workers)
kms "awskms" {
  purpose    = "worker-auth"
  region     = "us-east-1"
  kms_key_id = "19ec80b0-dfdd-4d97-8164-c6examplekey3"
  endpoint   = "https://vpce-0e1bb1852241f8cc6-pzi0do8n.kms.us-east-1.vpce.amazonaws.com"
}

# BSR KMS Key (optional, only needed if you use the
# session recording feature)
kms "awskms" {
  purpose    = "bsr"
  region     = "us-east-1"
  kms_key_id = "19ec80b0-dfdd-4d97-8164-c6examplekey4"
  endpoint   = "https://vpce-0e1bb1852241f8cc6-pzi0do8n.kms.us-east-1.vpce.amazonaws.com"
}
```
</CodeBlockConfig>

Refer to the list below for explanations of the parameters used in the example above:

- `disable mlock (bool: false)` - Disables the server from executing the `mlock` syscall, which prevents memory swap to the disk.
Preventing memory swap is fine for local development and testing.
However, HashiCorp does not recommend using it for production unless the systems running Boundary use encrypted swap or do not use swap at all.
Boundary only supports memory locking on UNIX-like systems that support `mlock()` syscall like Linux and FreeBSD.

   On Linux, to give the Boundary executable the ability to use `mlock` syscall without running the process as root, run the following command:

   `sudo setcap cap_ipc_lock=+ep $(readlink -f $(which boundary))`

   If you use a Linux distribution with a modern version of systemd, you can add the following directive to the **"[Service]"** configuration section:

   `LimitMEMLOCK=infinity`

- `listener` - Configures the listeners on which Boundary serves traffic (API cluster and proxy).
- `controller` - Configures the controller.
If present, `boundary server` starts a controller subprocess.
- `events` - Configures event-specific parameters.

   The example events configuration above is exhaustive and writes all events to both `stderr` and a file.
   This configuration may or may not work for your organization's logging solution.

- `kms` - Configures KMS blocks for [various purposes](/boundary/docs/secure/encryption/data-encryption).

   Refer to the links below for configuration information for the different cloud KMS blocks:

   - [AWS](/boundary/docs/configuration/kms/awskms)
   - [Azure](/boundary/docs/configuration/kms/azurekeyvault)
   - [GCP](/boundary/docs/configuration/kms/gcpckms)
   - [OCI](/boundary/docs/configuration/kms/ocikms)
   - [AliCloud](/boundary/docs/configuration/kms/alicloudkms)
   - [Vault Transit](/boundary/docs/configuration/kms/transit)

Refer to the documentation for additional [top-level configuration options](/boundary/docs/configuration) and additional [controller-specific options](/boundary/docs/configuration/controller).

## Initialize the database

Before you can start Boundary, you must initialize the database from one Boundary controller.
Initialization is a one-time operation that executes the required database migrations for the Boundary cluster to operate.

```shell-session
$ boundary database init -config /etc/boundary.d/controller.hcl
```

Boundary automatically generates a number of resources to make getting started easier unless you specify not to. Initializing the database automatically generates default scopes, auth methods, user, account, and targets. These resources are not required.

You can add the following flags to skip creating these initial resources:

```shell-session
$ boundary database init \
   -skip-auth-method-creation \
   -skip-host-resources-creation \
   -skip-scopes-creation \
   -skip-target-creation \
   -config /etc/boundary.d/controller.hcl
```

Use the following command to view the help for more initialization options:

```shell-session
$ boundary database init -h
```

## Start the Boundary service

When the configuration files are in place on each Boundary controller, you can proceed to enable and start the binary on each of the Boundary controller nodes using `systemd`.

Run the following commands to enable and start the service:

1. 

  ```shell-session
  $ sudo systemctl enable boundary
  ```

1.

  ```shell-session
  $ sudo systemctl start boundary
  ```

## Manually configure systemd (optional)

If you [installed Boundary manually](/boundary/docs/deploy/self-managed/install#manually-install-boundary), you can configure Boundary to run as a service under systemd. 

To do this, you should:

1. Check the location of your controller configuration file on disk, such as `/etc/boundary.d/controller.hcl` in the example on this page.
1. Configure the user and group the Boundary service runs under.
1. Set up the systemd unit file.
1. Start the Boundary service.

### Configure the user and group

HashiCorp recommends running Boundary as a non-root user and managing the Boundary process running under systemd with this user.

Add the `boundary` system user and group to ensure you have a no-login user that owns and runs Boundary:

```shell-session
$ sudo adduser --system --group boundary || true ;
$ sudo chown boundary:boundary /etc/boundary.d/controller.hcl ;
$ sudo chown boundary:boundary /usr/local/bin/boundary
```

<Tip>

Make sure to [initialize the database](#initialize-the-database) before starting the service. If another controller or worker has already done this, you will receive an expected error stating that the database has already been initialized.

</Tip>

### Set up the unit file

Create a new unit file, such as `/etc/systemd/system/boundary-controller.service`. Add the following code to the file. Update the path to your `controller.hcl` file on the `ExecStart` and `ConditionFileNotEmpty` lines, and the user and group as needed.

<CodeBlockConfig filename="/etc/systemd/system/boundary-controller.service">

```bash
[Unit]
Description="HashiCorp Boundary controller"
Documentation=https://developer.hashicorp.com/boundary/docs
Requires=network-online.target
After=network-online.target
ConditionFileNotEmpty=/etc/boundary.d/controller.hcl
StartLimitIntervalSec=60
StartLimitBurst=3

[Service]
User=boundary
Group=boundary
ProtectSystem=full
ProtectHome=read-only
PrivateTmp=yes
PrivateDevices=yes
SecureBits=keep-caps
AmbientCapabilities=CAP_IPC_LOCK
CapabilityBoundingSet=CAP_SYSLOG CAP_IPC_LOCK
NoNewPrivileges=yes
ExecStart=/usr/bin/boundary server -config=/etc/boundary.d/controller.hcl
ExecReload=/bin/kill --signal HUP $MAINPID
KillMode=process
KillSignal=SIGINT
Restart=on-failure
RestartSec=5
TimeoutStopSec=30
LimitNOFILE=65536
LimitMEMLOCK=infinity

[Install]
WantedBy=multi-user.target
EOF
```

</CodeBlockConfig>

### Start the Boundary service

Set the appropriate permissions on the unit file:

```shell-session
$ sudo chmod 664 /etc/systemd/system/boundary-controller.service
```

Reload the systemd daemon, and enable and start the Boundary service:

```shell-session
$ sudo systemctl daemon-reload ;
$ sudo systemctl enable boundary-controller ;
$ sudo systemctl start boundary-controller
```

## Authenticate and manage resources

Upon logging in to Boundary for the first time, HashiCorp recommends creating an admin user for the global and project level scopes to manage Boundary.
Creating an admin user allows you to configure targets within those scopes and manage them.

HashiCorp recommends that you use the [KMS recovery workflow](/boundary/docs/deploy/self-managed/initialize#log-in-with-recovery-kms) to log in to Boundary for the first time.
Refer to [Creating your first login account](/boundary/docs/deploy/self-managed/initialize#create-your-first-login-account) to learn about setting up your first auth method, user, account, and role to log in to Boundary going forward without the recovery KMS workflow.

## Next steps

After you configure the controller, you should:

1. [Deploy workers](/boundary/docs/deploy/self-managed/deploy-workers)
1. [Initialize Boundary](/boundary/docs/deploy/self-managed/initialize)
1. [Install the Boundary Clients](/boundary/docs/deploy/self-managed/install-clients)
