content/boundary/v0.20.x/content/docs/deploy/self-managed/install.mdx, before:

---
layout: docs
page_title: Install Boundary
description: >-
 Deploy a self-managed version of Boundary Enterprise or Community Edition on Ubuntu/Debian, CentOS/RHEL, or Amazon Linux by installing the binary file.
---

# Install Boundary

Pre-built Boundary packages are available from the [HashiCorp Linux
Repository](https://www.hashicorp.com/blog/announcing-the-hashicorp-linux-repository).
In addition to installing the Boundary binary, the official package also
provides a systemd service unit, and a local `boundary` user account under which
the service runs.

<Note>

You must complete the following steps for each Boundary controller and worker
node that you want to deploy. The binary operates as either a worker or
controller, depending on the configuration that you generate for the
Boundary binary.

</Note>

The steps vary by Linux distribution.

Select your distribution of Boundary, and complete the steps to install the
binary:

<Tabs>
<Tab heading="Enterprise">

<Tabs>
<Tab heading="Ubuntu/Debian">

1. Use the following command to add the HashiCorp GPC key as a trusted
   package-signing key:

    ```shell-session
    $ curl -fsSL https://apt.releases.hashicorp.com/gpg | sudo gpg --dearmor -o /usr/share/keyrings/hashicorp-archive-keyring.gpg
    ```
1. Add the official HashiCorp Linux repository:

    ```shell-session
    $ echo "deb [signed-by=/usr/share/keyrings/hashicorp-archive-keyring.gpg] https://apt.releases.hashicorp.com $(lsb_release -cs) main" | sudo tee /etc/apt/sources.list.d/hashicorp.list
    ```

1. Update the package index:

    ```shell-session
    $ sudo apt update
    ```

1. Install Boundary Enterprise:

    ```shell-session
    $ sudo apt install boundary-enterprise
    ```

</Tab>
<Tab heading="CentOS/RHEL">

1. Use the following command to install `yum-config-manager` to manage your
   repositories:

    ```shell-session
    $ sudo yum install -y yum-utils
    ```

2. Add the official HashiCorp Linux repository:

    ```shell-session
    $ sudo yum-config-manager --add-repo https://rpm.releases.hashicorp.com/RHEL/hashicorp.repo
    ```

3. Install Boundary Enterprise:

    ```shell-session
    $ sudo yum -y install boundary-enterprise
    ```

</Tab>
<Tab heading="Amazon Linux">

1. Use the following command to install `yum-config-manager` to manage your
   repositories:

    ```shell-session
    $ sudo yum install -y yum-utils shadow-utils
    ```

2. Add the official HashiCorp Linux repository:

    ```shell-session
    $ sudo yum-config-manager --add-repo https://rpm.releases.hashicorp.com/AmazonLinux/hashicorp.repo
    ```

3. Install Boundary Enterprise:

    ```shell-session
    $ sudo yum -y install boundary-enterprise
    ```

</Tab>
</Tabs>
</Tab>
<Tab heading="Community Edition">
<Tabs>
<Tab heading="Ubuntu/Debian">

1. Use the following command to add the HashiCorp GPC key as a trusted
   package-signing key:

    ```shell-session
    $ curl -fsSL https://apt.releases.hashicorp.com/gpg | sudo gpg --dearmor -o /usr/share/keyrings/hashicorp-archive-keyring.gpg
    ```
1. Add the official HashiCorp Linux repository:

    ```shell-session
    $ echo "deb [signed-by=/usr/share/keyrings/hashicorp-archive-keyring.gpg] https://apt.releases.hashicorp.com $(lsb_release -cs) main" | sudo tee /etc/apt/sources.list.d/hashicorp.list
    ```

1. Update the package index:

    ```shell-session
    $ sudo apt update
    ```

1. Install Boundary Community Edition:

    ```shell-session
    $ sudo apt install boundary
    ```

</Tab>
<Tab heading="CentOS/RHEL">

1. Use the following command to install `yum-config-manager` to manage your
   repositories:

    ```shell-session
    $ sudo yum install -y yum-utils
    ```

2. Add the official HashiCorp Linux repository:

    ```shell-session
    $ sudo yum-config-manager --add-repo https://rpm.releases.hashicorp.com/RHEL/hashicorp.repo
    ```

3. Install Boundary Community Edition:

    ```shell-session
    $ sudo yum -y install boundary
    ```

</Tab>

<Tab heading="Amazon Linux">

1. Use the following command to install `yum-config-manager` to manage your
   repositories:

    ```shell-session
    $ sudo yum install -y yum-utils shadow-utils
    ```

2. Add the official HashiCorp Linux repository:

    ```shell-session
    $ sudo yum-config-manager --add-repo https://rpm.releases.hashicorp.com/AmazonLinux/hashicorp.repo
    ```

3. Install Boundary Community Edition:

    ```shell-session
    $ sudo yum -y install boundary
    ```

</Tab>
</Tabs>
</Tab>
</Tabs>

You should install the binary on the controller and worker instances you configure to run in your Boundary environments.

## Manually install Boundary

You can also manually install a Boundary package you get from the [HashiCorp Linux Repository](https://www.hashicorp.com/blog/announcing-the-hashicorp-linux-repository), [build Boundary from source](https://github.com/hashicorp/boundary), or get the package from another trusted location.

If you choose to install Boundary manually, ensure the Boundary packages you deploy on your controllers and workers in the next step are the same version.

## Next steps

After you install the binary, you should:

1. [Configure controllers](/boundary/docs/deploy/self-managed/configure-controllers)
1. [Deploy workers](/boundary/docs/deploy/self-managed/deploy-workers)
1. [Initialize Boundary](/boundary/docs/deploy/self-managed/initialize)
1. [Install the Boundary Clients](/boundary/docs/deploy/self-managed/install-clients)

Commit message:

adds direct links to systemd setup

content/boundary/v0.20.x/content/docs/deploy/self-managed/install.mdx, after:

---
layout: docs
page_title: Install Boundary
description: >-
 Deploy a self-managed version of Boundary Enterprise or Community Edition on Ubuntu/Debian, CentOS/RHEL, or Amazon Linux by installing the binary file.
---

# Install Boundary

Pre-built Boundary packages are available from the [HashiCorp Linux
Repository](https://www.hashicorp.com/blog/announcing-the-hashicorp-linux-repository).
In addition to installing the Boundary binary, the official package also
provides a systemd service unit, and a local `boundary` user account under which
the service runs.

<Note>

You must complete the following steps for each Boundary controller and worker
node that you want to deploy. The binary operates as either a worker or
controller, depending on the configuration that you generate for the
Boundary binary.

</Note>

The steps vary by Linux distribution.

Select your distribution of Boundary, and complete the steps to install the
binary:

<Tabs>
<Tab heading="Enterprise">

<Tabs>
<Tab heading="Ubuntu/Debian">

1. Use the following command to add the HashiCorp GPC key as a trusted
   package-signing key:

    ```shell-session
    $ curl -fsSL https://apt.releases.hashicorp.com/gpg | sudo gpg --dearmor -o /usr/share/keyrings/hashicorp-archive-keyring.gpg
    ```
1. Add the official HashiCorp Linux repository:

    ```shell-session
    $ echo "deb [signed-by=/usr/share/keyrings/hashicorp-archive-keyring.gpg] https://apt.releases.hashicorp.com $(lsb_release -cs) main" | sudo tee /etc/apt/sources.list.d/hashicorp.list
    ```

1. Update the package index:

    ```shell-session
    $ sudo apt update
    ```

1. Install Boundary Enterprise:

    ```shell-session
    $ sudo apt install boundary-enterprise
    ```

</Tab>
<Tab heading="CentOS/RHEL">

1. Use the following command to install `yum-config-manager` to manage your
   repositories:

    ```shell-session
    $ sudo yum install -y yum-utils
    ```

2. Add the official HashiCorp Linux repository:

    ```shell-session
    $ sudo yum-config-manager --add-repo https://rpm.releases.hashicorp.com/RHEL/hashicorp.repo
    ```

3. Install Boundary Enterprise:

    ```shell-session
    $ sudo yum -y install boundary-enterprise
    ```

</Tab>
<Tab heading="Amazon Linux">

1. Use the following command to install `yum-config-manager` to manage your
   repositories:

    ```shell-session
    $ sudo yum install -y yum-utils shadow-utils
    ```

2. Add the official HashiCorp Linux repository:

    ```shell-session
    $ sudo yum-config-manager --add-repo https://rpm.releases.hashicorp.com/AmazonLinux/hashicorp.repo
    ```

3. Install Boundary Enterprise:

    ```shell-session
    $ sudo yum -y install boundary-enterprise
    ```

</Tab>
</Tabs>
</Tab>
<Tab heading="Community Edition">
<Tabs>
<Tab heading="Ubuntu/Debian">

1. Use the following command to add the HashiCorp GPC key as a trusted
   package-signing key:

    ```shell-session
    $ curl -fsSL https://apt.releases.hashicorp.com/gpg | sudo gpg --dearmor -o /usr/share/keyrings/hashicorp-archive-keyring.gpg
    ```
1. Add the official HashiCorp Linux repository:

    ```shell-session
    $ echo "deb [signed-by=/usr/share/keyrings/hashicorp-archive-keyring.gpg] https://apt.releases.hashicorp.com $(lsb_release -cs) main" | sudo tee /etc/apt/sources.list.d/hashicorp.list
    ```

1. Update the package index:

    ```shell-session
    $ sudo apt update
    ```

1. Install Boundary Community Edition:

    ```shell-session
    $ sudo apt install boundary
    ```

</Tab>
<Tab heading="CentOS/RHEL">

1. Use the following command to install `yum-config-manager` to manage your
   repositories:

    ```shell-session
    $ sudo yum install -y yum-utils
    ```

2. Add the official HashiCorp Linux repository:

    ```shell-session
    $ sudo yum-config-manager --add-repo https://rpm.releases.hashicorp.com/RHEL/hashicorp.repo
    ```

3. Install Boundary Community Edition:

    ```shell-session
    $ sudo yum -y install boundary
    ```

</Tab>

<Tab heading="Amazon Linux">

1. Use the following command to install `yum-config-manager` to manage your
   repositories:

    ```shell-session
    $ sudo yum install -y yum-utils shadow-utils
    ```

2. Add the official HashiCorp Linux repository:

    ```shell-session
    $ sudo yum-config-manager --add-repo https://rpm.releases.hashicorp.com/AmazonLinux/hashicorp.repo
    ```

3. Install Boundary Community Edition:

    ```shell-session
    $ sudo yum -y install boundary
    ```

</Tab>
</Tabs>
</Tab>
</Tabs>

You should install the binary on the controller and worker instances you configure to run in your Boundary environments.

## Manually install Boundary

You can also manually install a Boundary package you get from the [HashiCorp Linux Repository](https://www.hashicorp.com/blog/announcing-the-hashicorp-linux-repository), [build Boundary from source](https://github.com/hashicorp/boundary), or get the package from another trusted location.

If you choose to install Boundary manually, ensure the Boundary packages you deploy on your controllers and workers in the next step are the same version.

You can review the following topics to manually configure systemd for the controllers and workers:

- [Configure controllers: Manually configure systemd](/boundary/docs/deploy/self-managed/configure-controllers#manually-configure-systemd-optional)
- [Deploy workers: Manually configure systemd](/boundary/docs/deploy/self-managed/deploy-workers#manually-configure-systemd-optional)

## Next steps

After you install the binary, you should:

1. [Configure controllers](/boundary/docs/deploy/self-managed/configure-controllers)
1. [Deploy workers](/boundary/docs/deploy/self-managed/deploy-workers)
1. [Initialize Boundary](/boundary/docs/deploy/self-managed/initialize)
1. [Install the Boundary Clients](/boundary/docs/deploy/self-managed/install-clients)
