content/boundary/v0.21.x/content/partials/configuration-reference/workers/common-worker-parameters.mdx, before:

The following fields apply to all registration mechanisms.

```hcl
worker {
  public_addr = "5.1.23.198"

  # Local storage path required if session recording is enabled
  recording_storage_path = "tmp/boundary/"

  # Minimum available disk space required in the local storage path if session recording is enabled
  recording_storage_minimum_available_capacity = "500MB"

  # Mutually exclusive with hcp_boundary_cluster_id
  initial_upstreams = [
    "10.0.0.1",
    "10.0.0.2",
  ]

  tags {
    type   = ["prod", "webservers"]
    region = ["us-east-1"]
  }

  # HCP Boundary only
  # hcp_boundary_cluster_id = "....."
}
```

- `public_addr` - Specifies the public host or IP address (and optionally port)
   where clients can reach the worker for proxying. By default, it uses the
   address of the listener marked for `proxy` purpose. This is useful for cloud
   environments that do not bind a publicly accessible IP directly to a NIC on
   the host, such as an Amazon EIP.

   You should omit this parameter in multi-hop configurations if this self-managed worker connects to an upstream HCP-managed worker.

   This value can reference any of the following:
   - a direct address string
   - read an address from a file on disk (file://)
   - read an address from an environment variable (env://)

- `initial_upstreams` - A list of hosts/IP addresses and optionally ports for
  reaching the Boundary cluster. The port will default to `:9201` if not
  specified. This value can be a direct access string array with the addresses,
  or it can refer to a file on disk (`file://`) from which the addresses will be
  read, or an environment variable (`env://`) from which to read the addresses. When
  using environment variable or file, their contents must formatted as a JSON array:
  `["127.0.0.1", "192.168.0.1", "10.0.0.1"]`

  Self-managed workers connecting to HCP Boundary require the [`hcp_boundary_cluster_id`](/boundary/docs/configuration/worker/#hcp_boundary_cluster_id) parameter instead of `initial upstreams`, unless you are configuring an HCP-managed worker as an ingress worker.
  If you configure a self-managed worker with both `initial_upstreams` and `hcp_boundary_cluster_id`, the worker configuration fails.

- `hcp_boundary_cluster_id` - A string required to configure workers using worker-led or controller-led registration
  to connect to your HCP Boundary cluster rather than specifying
`initial_upstreams`. This parameter is valid only for workers using the worker-led or controller-led
  registration method and for workers directly connected to HCP Boundary.

- `recording_storage_path` - A path to the local storage for recorded sessions.
   Boundary stores session recordings in the local storage while they are in progress.
   When the session is complete, Boundary moves the local session recording to remote storage and deletes the local copy.

- `recording_storage_minimum_available_capacity` - A value measured in bytes that
   defines the worker's local storage state.  Boundary compares this value to the available local disk space found in the `recording_storage_path` and determines if a worker can perform session recording operations.
   The supported suffixes are kb, kib, mb, mib, gb, gib, tb, tib, which are not case sensitive. Example: 2GB, 2gb, 2GiB, 2gib.
   The possible storage states based on the `recording_storage_minimum_available_capacity` are:
    - Available - The worker has storage above the threshold and can proxy sessions that have session recording enabled.
    - Low storage - The worker has storage below the threshold. It allows existing sessions to continue without interruption but prevents proxying new sessions that have session recording enabled. The worker cannot record new sessions or play back existing recordings.
    - Critically low storage - The worker falls below half the storage threshold. It forcefully closes existing sessions with session recording. The worker cannot record new sessions or play back existing recordings.
    - Out of storage - The worker is out of local disk space. It cannot record new sessions or play back existing recordings. The worker enters an unrecoverable state, requiring an administrator to intervene and resolve the issue.
    - Not configured - The worker lacks a configured local storage path.
    - Unknown - The worker starts with this default local storage state. This state indicates that the worker's local storage state is not yet known.

- `tags` - A map of key-value pairs where values are an array of strings. Most
  commonly used for [filtering](/boundary/docs/filtering) targets a
  worker can proxy via [worker
  tags](/boundary/docs/workers/worker-tags). On `SIGHUP`, the tags
  set here will be re-parsed and new values used. It can also be a string
  referring to a file on disk (`file://`) or an environment variable (`env://`).

Commit message:

Update Boundary Worker docs with ssh_known_hosts_path

content/boundary/v0.21.x/content/partials/configuration-reference/workers/common-worker-parameters.mdx, after:

The following fields apply to all registration mechanisms.

```hcl
worker {
  public_addr = "5.1.23.198"

  # Local storage path required if session recording is enabled
  recording_storage_path = "tmp/boundary/"

  # Minimum available disk space required in the local storage path if session recording is enabled
  recording_storage_minimum_available_capacity = "500MB"

  # Mutually exclusive with hcp_boundary_cluster_id
  initial_upstreams = [
    "10.0.0.1",
    "10.0.0.2",
  ]

  tags {
    type   = ["prod", "webservers"]
    region = ["us-east-1"]
  }

  # HCP Boundary only
  # hcp_boundary_cluster_id = "....."
}
```

- `public_addr` - Specifies the public host or IP address (and optionally port)
   where clients can reach the worker for proxying. By default, it uses the
   address of the listener marked for `proxy` purpose. This is useful for cloud
   environments that do not bind a publicly accessible IP directly to a NIC on
   the host, such as an Amazon EIP.

   You should omit this parameter in multi-hop configurations if this self-managed worker connects to an upstream HCP-managed worker.

   This value can reference any of the following:
   - a direct address string
   - read an address from a file on disk (file://)
   - read an address from an environment variable (env://)

- `initial_upstreams` - A list of hosts/IP addresses and optionally ports for
  reaching the Boundary cluster. The port will default to `:9201` if not
  specified. This value can be a direct access string array with the addresses,
  or it can refer to a file on disk (`file://`) from which the addresses will be
  read, or an environment variable (`env://`) from which to read the addresses. When
  using environment variable or file, their contents must formatted as a JSON array:
  `["127.0.0.1", "192.168.0.1", "10.0.0.1"]`

  Self-managed workers connecting to HCP Boundary require the [`hcp_boundary_cluster_id`](/boundary/docs/configuration/worker/#hcp_boundary_cluster_id) parameter instead of `initial upstreams`, unless you are configuring an HCP-managed worker as an ingress worker.
  If you configure a self-managed worker with both `initial_upstreams` and `hcp_boundary_cluster_id`, the worker configuration fails.

- `hcp_boundary_cluster_id` - A string required to configure workers using worker-led or controller-led registration
  to connect to your HCP Boundary cluster rather than specifying
`initial_upstreams`. This parameter is valid only for workers using the worker-led or controller-led
  registration method and for workers directly connected to HCP Boundary.

- `ssh_known_hosts_path` - Specifies the path of the `known_hosts` file to be used by the worker for
  SSH host key verification of an SSH target. The path must already exist. If not provided the
  worker will skip host key verification. On `SIGHUP`, the `known_hosts` file is re-parsed and new values used.
  SSH targets and SSH credential injection are Enterprise-only features.

- `recording_storage_path` - A path to the local storage for recorded sessions.
   Boundary stores session recordings in the local storage while they are in progress.
   When the session is complete, Boundary moves the local session recording to remote storage and deletes the local copy.

- `recording_storage_minimum_available_capacity` - A value measured in bytes that
   defines the worker's local storage state.  Boundary compares this value to the available local disk space found in the `recording_storage_path` and determines if a worker can perform session recording operations.
   The supported suffixes are kb, kib, mb, mib, gb, gib, tb, tib, which are not case sensitive. Example: 2GB, 2gb, 2GiB, 2gib.
   The possible storage states based on the `recording_storage_minimum_available_capacity` are:
    - Available - The worker has storage above the threshold and can proxy sessions that have session recording enabled.
    - Low storage - The worker has storage below the threshold. It allows existing sessions to continue without interruption but prevents proxying new sessions that have session recording enabled. The worker cannot record new sessions or play back existing recordings.
    - Critically low storage - The worker falls below half the storage threshold. It forcefully closes existing sessions with session recording. The worker cannot record new sessions or play back existing recordings.
    - Out of storage - The worker is out of local disk space. It cannot record new sessions or play back existing recordings. The worker enters an unrecoverable state, requiring an administrator to intervene and resolve the issue.
    - Not configured - The worker lacks a configured local storage path.
    - Unknown - The worker starts with this default local storage state. This state indicates that the worker's local storage state is not yet known.

- `tags` - A map of key-value pairs where values are an array of strings. Most
  commonly used for [filtering](/boundary/docs/filtering) targets a
  worker can proxy via [worker
  tags](/boundary/docs/workers/worker-tags). On `SIGHUP`, the tags
  set here will be re-parsed and new values used. It can also be a string
  referring to a file on disk (`file://`) or an environment variable (`env://`).
