content/consul/v1.22.x/content/docs/upgrade/index.mdx, before:

---
layout: docs
page_title: Upgrade Consul
description: >-
  Consul is meant to be a long-running agent on any nodes participating in a
  Consul cluster. These nodes consistently communicate with each other. As such,
  protocol level compatibility and ease of upgrades is an important thing to
  keep in mind when using Consul.
---

# Upgrading Consul

Consul is meant to be a long-running agent on any nodes participating in a
Consul cluster. These nodes consistently communicate with each other. As such,
protocol level compatibility and ease of upgrades is an important thing to
keep in mind when using Consul.

This page documents how to upgrade Consul when a new version is released.

-> **Tip:** For Consul Enterprise, see the [Automated Upgrades documentation](/consul/docs/upgrade/automated).

## Standard Upgrades

For upgrades we strive to ensure backwards compatibility. To support this,
nodes gossip their protocol version and builds. This enables clients and
servers to intelligently enable new features when available, or to gracefully
fallback to a backward compatible mode of operation otherwise.
Visit the [General Upgrade Process](/consul/docs/upgrade/instructions/general) for a detailed upgrade guide.

For most upgrades, the process is simple. Assuming the current version of
Consul is A, and version B is released.

1. Check the [version's upgrade notes](/consul/docs/upgrade/version-specific) to ensure
   there are no compatibility issues that will affect your workload. If there
   are plan accordingly before continuing.

2. On each Consul server agent, install version B of Consul.

3. One Consul server agent at a time,  use a service management system
   (e.g., systemd, upstart, etc.) to restart the Consul service with version B. Wait until
   the server agent is healthy and has rejoined the cluster before moving on to the
   next server agent.

4. Once all the server agents are upgraded, begin a rollout of client agents following
   the same process.

   -> **Upgrade Envoy proxies:** If a client agent has associated Envoy proxies (e.g., sidecars, gateways),
      install a [compatible Envoy version](/consul/docs/connect/proxies/envoy#supported-versions)
      for Consul version B.
      After stopping client agent version A,
      stop its associated Envoy proxies.
      After restarting the client agent with version B,
      restart its associated Envoy proxies with the compatible Envoy version.

5. Done! You are now running the latest Consul agent. You can verify this
   by running `consul members` to make sure all members have the latest
   build and highest protocol version.

## Upgrade recommendation

We encourage organizations to use a maintained version of Consul
so that they benefit from bug and security fixes in minor releases.

### Consul community edition

For Consul community edition users,
consistently operating a maintained version requires upgrading
every 4 months to the latest major release.

### Consul Enterprise

Standard major releases of Consul Enterprise are maintained for approximately 1 year.
[Consul Enterprise Long Term Support (LTS)](/consul/docs/upgrade/lts)
releases are maintained for approximately 2 years.

For Consul Enterprise customers,
consistently operating a maintained version requires a major upgrade every 12 months
on average when using [LTS](/consul/docs/upgrade/lts) releases.
LTS releases support an upgrade jump of at most 3 major versions.
For more details, refer to
[Long Term Support upgrade recommendation](/consul/docs/enterprise/long-term-support#annual-upgrade-to-next-lts-release).

## Large Version Jumps

If your Consul deployment is many major versions behind the latest release
and you need to upgrade, review our
[upgrade instructions](/consul/docs/upgrade/instructions)
for more information about how to perform those upgrades.

After upgrading to a maintained version of Consul, refer to our
[upgrade recommendation](#upgrade-recommendation)
to inform planning for future upgrades.

## Backward Incompatible Upgrades

In some cases, a backwards incompatible update may be released. This has not
been an issue yet, but to support upgrades we support setting an explicit
protocol version. This disables incompatible features and enables a 2-phase upgrade.

For the steps below, assume you're running version A of Consul, and then
version B comes out.

1. On each node, install version B of Consul.

2. One server at a time, shut down version A via `consul leave` and start version B with the
   `-protocol=PREVIOUS` flag, where "PREVIOUS" is the protocol version of
   version A (which can be discovered by running `consul -v` or `consul members`). Wait until the server is healthy and has rejoined the cluster
   before moving on to the next server.

3. Once all nodes are running version B, go through every node and restart the
   version B agent _without_ the `-protocol` flag, again wait for each server to
   rejoin the cluster before continuing.

4. Done! You're now running the latest Consul agent speaking the latest protocol.
   You can verify this is the case by running `consul members` to
   make sure all members are speaking the same, latest protocol version.

The key to making this work is the [protocol compatibility](/consul/docs/upgrade/compatibility)
of Consul. The protocol version system is discussed below.

## Protocol Versions

By default, Consul agents speak the latest protocol they can. However, each
new version of Consul is also able to speak the previous protocol, if there
were any protocol changes.

You can see what protocol versions your version of Consul understands by
running `consul -v`. You'll see output similar to that below:

```shell-session
$ consul -v
Consul v0.7.0
Protocol 2 spoken by default, understands 2 to 3 (agent will automatically use protocol >2 when speaking to compatible agents)
```

This says the version of Consul as well as the protocol versions this
agent speaks and can understand.

Sometimes Consul will default to speak a lower protocol version
than it understands, in order to ease compatibility with older agents. For
example, Consul agents that understand version 3 claim to speak version 2,
and only send version 3 messages to agents that understand version 3. This
allows features to upshift automatically as agents are upgraded, and is the
strategy used whenever possible. If this is not possible, then you will need
to do a backward incompatible upgrade using the instructions above, and such
a requirement will be clearly outlined in the notes for a given release.

By specifying the `-protocol` flag on `consul agent`, you can tell the
Consul agent to speak any protocol version that it can understand. This
only specifies the protocol version to _speak_. Every Consul agent can
always understand the entire range of protocol versions it claims to
on `consul -v`.

~> **By running a previous protocol version**, some features
of Consul, especially newer features, may not be available. If this is the
case, Consul will typically warn you. In general, you should always upgrade
your cluster so that you can run the latest protocol version.

## Upgrading on Kubernetes

See the dedicated [Upgrading Consul on Kubernetes](/consul/docs/upgrade/k8s) page.

## Upgrading federated datacenters

If you need to upgrade a federated environment with multiple datacenters you can
refer to the [Upgrade Multiple Federated Consul Datacenters](/consul/tutorials/datacenter-operations/upgrade-federated-environment)
tutorial.

Commit message:

Updated consul upgrade docs to reflect License update changes from v1.21.7 (#1789)
* Updated consul upgrade docs to reflect License update changes from v1.21.7

* Apply suggestion from @danielehc

Co-authored-by: danielehc <40759828+danielehc@users.noreply.github.com>

* Apply suggestion from @danielehc on note block format

Co-authored-by: danielehc <40759828+danielehc@users.noreply.github.com>

* Apply suggestion from @danielehc

Co-authored-by: danielehc <40759828+danielehc@users.noreply.github.com>

* Apply suggestion from @danielehc

Co-authored-by: danielehc <40759828+danielehc@users.noreply.github.com>

* Apply suggestion from @danielehc

Co-authored-by: danielehc <40759828+danielehc@users.noreply.github.com>

---------

Co-authored-by: danielehc <40759828+danielehc@users.noreply.github.com>

content/consul/v1.22.x/content/docs/upgrade/index.mdx, after:

---
layout: docs
page_title: Upgrade Consul
description: >-
  Consul is meant to be a long-running agent on any nodes participating in a
  Consul cluster. These nodes consistently communicate with each other. As such,
  protocol level compatibility and ease of upgrades is an important thing to
  keep in mind when using Consul.
---

<Note> 

The Consul license has been updated. Please ensure your servers and clients are upgraded to 1.21.7 or later before applying the renewed license. Your existing license is compatible with newer versions of Consul, so no downtime is expected.

</Note>

# Upgrading Consul

Consul is meant to be a long-running agent on any nodes participating in a
Consul cluster. These nodes consistently communicate with each other. As such,
protocol level compatibility and ease of upgrades is an important thing to
keep in mind when using Consul.

This page documents how to upgrade Consul when a new version is released.

-> **Tip:** For Consul Enterprise, see the [Automated Upgrades documentation](/consul/docs/upgrade/automated).

## Standard Upgrades

For upgrades we strive to ensure backwards compatibility. To support this,
nodes gossip their protocol version and builds. This enables clients and
servers to intelligently enable new features when available, or to gracefully
fallback to a backward compatible mode of operation otherwise.
Visit the [General Upgrade Process](/consul/docs/upgrade/instructions/general) for a detailed upgrade guide.

For most upgrades, the process is simple. Assuming the current version of
Consul is A, and version B is released.

1. Check the [version's upgrade notes](/consul/docs/upgrade/version-specific) to ensure
   there are no compatibility issues that will affect your workload. If there
   are plan accordingly before continuing.

2. On each Consul server agent, install version B of Consul.

3. One Consul server agent at a time,  use a service management system
   (e.g., systemd, upstart, etc.) to restart the Consul service with version B. Wait until
   the server agent is healthy and has rejoined the cluster before moving on to the
   next server agent.

4. Once all the server agents are upgraded, begin a rollout of client agents following
   the same process.

   -> **Upgrade Envoy proxies:** If a client agent has associated Envoy proxies (e.g., sidecars, gateways),
      install a [compatible Envoy version](/consul/docs/connect/proxies/envoy#supported-versions)
      for Consul version B.
      After stopping client agent version A,
      stop its associated Envoy proxies.
      After restarting the client agent with version B,
      restart its associated Envoy proxies with the compatible Envoy version.

5. Done! You are now running the latest Consul agent. You can verify this
   by running `consul members` to make sure all members have the latest
   build and highest protocol version.

## Upgrade recommendation

We encourage organizations to use a maintained version of Consul
so that they benefit from bug and security fixes in minor releases.

### Consul community edition

For Consul community edition users,
consistently operating a maintained version requires upgrading
every 4 months to the latest major release.

### Consul Enterprise

Standard major releases of Consul Enterprise are maintained for approximately 1 year.
[Consul Enterprise Long Term Support (LTS)](/consul/docs/upgrade/lts)
releases are maintained for approximately 2 years.

For Consul Enterprise customers,
consistently operating a maintained version requires a major upgrade every 12 months
on average when using [LTS](/consul/docs/upgrade/lts) releases.
LTS releases support an upgrade jump of at most 3 major versions.
For more details, refer to
[Long Term Support upgrade recommendation](/consul/docs/enterprise/long-term-support#annual-upgrade-to-next-lts-release).

## Large Version Jumps

If your Consul deployment is many major versions behind the latest release
and you need to upgrade, review our
[upgrade instructions](/consul/docs/upgrade/instructions)
for more information about how to perform those upgrades.

After upgrading to a maintained version of Consul, refer to our
[upgrade recommendation](#upgrade-recommendation)
to inform planning for future upgrades.

## Backward Incompatible Upgrades

In some cases, a backwards incompatible update may be released. This has not
been an issue yet, but to support upgrades we support setting an explicit
protocol version. This disables incompatible features and enables a 2-phase upgrade.

For the steps below, assume you're running version A of Consul, and then
version B comes out.

1. On each node, install version B of Consul.

2. One server at a time, shut down version A via `consul leave` and start version B with the
   `-protocol=PREVIOUS` flag, where "PREVIOUS" is the protocol version of
   version A (which can be discovered by running `consul -v` or `consul members`). Wait until the server is healthy and has rejoined the cluster
   before moving on to the next server.

3. Once all nodes are running version B, go through every node and restart the
   version B agent _without_ the `-protocol` flag, again wait for each server to
   rejoin the cluster before continuing.

4. Done! You're now running the latest Consul agent speaking the latest protocol.
   You can verify this is the case by running `consul members` to
   make sure all members are speaking the same, latest protocol version.

The key to making this work is the [protocol compatibility](/consul/docs/upgrade/compatibility)
of Consul. The protocol version system is discussed below.

## Protocol Versions

By default, Consul agents speak the latest protocol they can. However, each
new version of Consul is also able to speak the previous protocol, if there
were any protocol changes.

You can see what protocol versions your version of Consul understands by
running `consul -v`. You'll see output similar to that below:

```shell-session
$ consul -v
Consul v0.7.0
Protocol 2 spoken by default, understands 2 to 3 (agent will automatically use protocol >2 when speaking to compatible agents)
```

This says the version of Consul as well as the protocol versions this
agent speaks and can understand.

Sometimes Consul will default to speak a lower protocol version
than it understands, in order to ease compatibility with older agents. For
example, Consul agents that understand version 3 claim to speak version 2,
and only send version 3 messages to agents that understand version 3. This
allows features to upshift automatically as agents are upgraded, and is the
strategy used whenever possible. If this is not possible, then you will need
to do a backward incompatible upgrade using the instructions above, and such
a requirement will be clearly outlined in the notes for a given release.

By specifying the `-protocol` flag on `consul agent`, you can tell the
Consul agent to speak any protocol version that it can understand. This
only specifies the protocol version to _speak_. Every Consul agent can
always understand the entire range of protocol versions it claims to
on `consul -v`.

~> **By running a previous protocol version**, some features
of Consul, especially newer features, may not be available. If this is the
case, Consul will typically warn you. In general, you should always upgrade
your cluster so that you can run the latest protocol version.

## Upgrading on Kubernetes

See the dedicated [Upgrading Consul on Kubernetes](/consul/docs/upgrade/k8s) page.

## Upgrading federated datacenters

If you need to upgrade a federated environment with multiple datacenters you can
refer to the [Upgrade Multiple Federated Consul Datacenters](/consul/tutorials/datacenter-operations/upgrade-federated-environment)
tutorial.
