content/well-architected-framework/docs/docs/secure-systems/identity-access-management/grant-least-privilege.mdx, before:

---
page_title: Grant least privilege
description: Write identity and access management (IAM) policies that follow the principle of least privilege.
---

# Grant least privilege

Writing policies is part of a complete identity and access management
strategy. Policies should follow the principle of least privilege. 

Once you have identified and collected security requirements to aid in [defining
access requirements](/well-architected-framework/secure-systems/identity-access-management/define-access-requirements),
you can use that information to write identity and access management (IAM) policies.

## What is least privilege

Least privilege means that users, applications, and systems have the minimum
permissions necessary to perform their required tasks. Following the principle of
least privilege reduces the risk of unauthorized access or actions that can
compromise the security of your systems and [secure
data](/well-architected-framework/secure-systems/data/classify-data).

<VideoEmbed url="https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=PTqVlftfK_U"/>

Policies that follow least privilege also help enforce separation of duties and
zero trust models, key security principles. Separation of duties ensures that no
single individual has control over all aspects of a critical process, reducing
the risk of fraud or error. Zero trust assumes that threats can come from both
inside and outside the network, so it requires strict identity verification for
every person and device trying to access resources.

Without policies that follow least privilege, you cannot enforce strong security
practices like separation of duties or zero trust that help protect your
organization.

## Why should you use least privilege

While most regulations do not have explicit requirements for least privilege,
they do require controls that show you have a strong identity and access
management program.

Consider conventional virtual private network (VPN) solutions, where a user
connects to the VPN and gains access to the entire network. If a user’s
credentials are compromised, an attacker can access all data on the network. A
VPN is generally unable to follow the principle of least privilege because it
provides broad access to the network.

In contrast, a zero trust model with least privilege ensures that users
have access to the specific resources they need. If a user’s credentials become
compromised using least privilege policies, the attacker can access just the
limited set of resources defined in the policy, reducing the potential damage.

You have now identified and collected the access requirements,
and used that information to write documentation that follows least privilege.
Some examples of documentation to write include:

- Software engineers do not have access to production.
- Site reliability engineers have access to production, but not permanently.
- Access to production requires approval and multi-factor authentication (MFA)
- Logging enabled and monitoring access to production.
- Centralized authentication and authorization for all services.

HashiCorp tools and services like [Vault](/vault/tutorials/get-started) and
[Boundary](/boundary/tutorials/get-started-hcp) allow you to implement least
privilege access controls, while Terraform helps you manage the policies for
Vault and Boundary.

In this example, you write a policy that only permits access to the path for a
a specifidc KV secrets engine. Because Vault policies follow least privilege by default, the
authenticated user does not have access to other paths not defined in the
policy.

![Diagram showing HashiCorp Vault using a policy to enforce least privilege access controls.](/img/well-architected-framework/diagram-iam-least-priv-vault.png#light-theme-only)
![Diagram showing HashiCorp Vault using a policy to enforce least privilege access controls.](/img/well-architected-framework/diagram-iam-least-priv-vault-dark.png#dark-theme-only)

With Vault and Boundary, you can provision dynamic credentials allowing users to
remotely access systems without managing long-lived credentials. When the
session is complete, Vault revokes the credentials, reducing the risk of
compromise.

Boundary also allows you to provide access to the specific systems and
services that users need access to, eliminating access to the entire network
like conventional VPN solutions do.

Terraform helps you manage the policies for Vault and Boundary, allowing you to
define, update, and enforce policies as code. Using automation to manage
policies ensures that your policies are consistent, auditable, and can be
version controlled.

HashiCorp resources:

- [Access controls with Vault policies](/vault/tutorials/policies/policies)
- [Policy as code with Sentinel](/sentinel/docs/concepts/policy-as-code)
- [Create IAM policies with Terraform](/terraform/tutorials/aws/aws-iam-policy)
- [Use templates with Waypoint](/waypoint/tutorials/hcp-waypoint/use-template)

External resources:

- [NIST cybersecurity framework](https://www.nist.gov/cyberframework)
- [Define, update, share, and enforce policies using code](https://developer.ibm.com/articles/policy-as-code-ansible-automation-engine-and-open-policy-agent/)
- [Understanding separation of duties](https://www.pingidentity.com/en/resources/blog/post/separation-of-duties.html)

## Next steps

Following these documents in order ensures a logical progression through the key
concepts and best practices, helping you build a strong foundation to build your
identity and access management program.

- [Define access requirements](/well-architected-framework/secure-systems/identity-access-management/define-access-requirements)
- **Grant least privilege (this document)**
- [Create permissions and guardrails](/well-architected-framework/secure-systems/identity-access-management/create-permissions-guardrails)
- [Centralize identity management](/well-architected-framework/secure-systems/identity-access-management/centralize-identity-management)
- [Implement strong sign-in workflows](/well-architected-framework/secure-systems/identity-access-management/implement-strong-sign-in-workflows)
- [Use dynamic credentials](/well-architected-framework/secure-systems/identity-access-management/use-dynamic-credentials)
- [Manage access lifecycle](/well-architected-framework/secure-systems/identity-access-management/manage-access-lifecycle)

In this section of Identity and access management, you learned the importance
of using least privilege in your policies governing access requirements.
Identity and access management is part of the [Secure
systems](/well-architected-framework/secure-systems) pillar.

Commit message:

first pass at this batch of seo changes for secure systems

content/well-architected-framework/docs/docs/secure-systems/identity-access-management/grant-least-privilege.mdx, after:

---
page_title: Implement least privilege access control policies
description: Learn how to write IAM policies using least privilege principles. Reduce security risks by granting minimum permissions to users, applications, and systems.
---

# Implement least privilege access control policies

You can strengthen your organization's security posture by implementing 
least privilege access control policies. Least privilege grants users, 
applications, and systems only the minimum permissions they need to 
perform their tasks. When you apply least privilege principles to your 
identity and access management (IAM) strategy, you reduce the risk of 
unauthorized access, limit potential damage from compromised credentials, 
and follow zero trust security.

Once you have identified and collected security requirements to aid in [defining
access requirements](/well-architected-framework/secure-systems/identity-access-management/define-access-requirements),
you can use that information to write IAM policies.

## What is least privilege

Least privilege means that users, applications, and systems have the minimum
permissions necessary to perform their required tasks. Following the principle of
least privilege reduces the risk of unauthorized access or actions that can
compromise the security of your systems and [secure
data](/well-architected-framework/secure-systems/data/classify-data).

<VideoEmbed url="https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=PTqVlftfK_U"/>

Policies that follow least privilege also help enforce separation of duties and
zero trust models, key security principles. Separation of duties ensures that no
single individual has control over all aspects of a critical process, reducing
the risk of fraud or error. Zero trust assumes that threats can come from both
inside and outside the network, so it requires strict identity verification for
every person and device trying to access resources.

Without policies that follow least privilege, you cannot enforce strong security
practices like separation of duties or zero trust that help protect your
organization.

## How least privilege reduces security risks

While most regulations do not have explicit requirements for least privilege,
they do require controls that show you have a strong identity and access
management program.

Consider conventional virtual private network (VPN) solutions, where a user
connects to the VPN and gains access to the entire network. If a user’s
credentials are compromised, an attacker can access all data on the network. A
VPN is generally unable to follow the principle of least privilege because it
provides broad access to the network.

In contrast, a zero trust model with least privilege ensures that users
have access to the specific resources they need. If a user’s credentials become
compromised using least privilege policies, the attacker can access just the
limited set of resources defined in the policy, reducing the potential damage.

You have now identified and collected the access requirements,
and used that information to write documentation that follows least privilege.
Some examples of documentation to write include:

- Software engineers do not have access to production.
- Site reliability engineers have access to production, but not permanently.
- Access to production requires approval and multi-factor authentication (MFA)
- Logging enabled and monitoring access to production.
- Centralized authentication and authorization for all services.

HashiCorp tools and services like [Vault](/vault/tutorials/get-started) and
[Boundary](/boundary/tutorials/get-started-hcp) allow you to implement least
privilege access controls, while Terraform helps you manage the policies for
Vault and Boundary.

In this example, you write a policy that only permits access to the path for a
a specifidc KV secrets engine. Because Vault policies follow least privilege by default, the
authenticated user does not have access to other paths not defined in the
policy.

![Diagram showing HashiCorp Vault using a policy to enforce least privilege access controls.](/img/well-architected-framework/diagram-iam-least-priv-vault.png#light-theme-only)
![Diagram showing HashiCorp Vault using a policy to enforce least privilege access controls.](/img/well-architected-framework/diagram-iam-least-priv-vault-dark.png#dark-theme-only)

With Vault and Boundary, you can provision dynamic credentials allowing users to
remotely access systems without managing long-lived credentials. When the
session is complete, Vault revokes the credentials, reducing the risk of
compromise.

Boundary also allows you to provide access to the specific systems and
services that users need access to, eliminating access to the entire network
like conventional VPN solutions do.

Terraform helps you manage the policies for Vault and Boundary, allowing you to
define, update, and enforce policies as code. Using automation to manage
policies ensures that your policies are consistent, auditable, and can be
version controlled.

HashiCorp resources:

- [Access controls with Vault policies](/vault/tutorials/policies/policies)
- [Policy as code with Sentinel](/sentinel/docs/concepts/policy-as-code)
- [Create IAM policies with Terraform](/terraform/tutorials/aws/aws-iam-policy)
- [Use templates with Waypoint](/waypoint/tutorials/hcp-waypoint/use-template)

External resources:

- [NIST cybersecurity framework](https://www.nist.gov/cyberframework)
- [Define, update, share, and enforce policies using code](https://developer.ibm.com/articles/policy-as-code-ansible-automation-engine-and-open-policy-agent/)
- [Understanding separation of duties](https://www.pingidentity.com/en/resources/blog/post/separation-of-duties.html)

## Next steps

Following these documents in order ensures a logical progression through the key
concepts and best practices, helping you build a strong foundation to build your
identity and access management program.

- [Define access requirements](/well-architected-framework/secure-systems/identity-access-management/define-access-requirements)
- **Grant least privilege (this document)**
- [Create permissions and guardrails](/well-architected-framework/secure-systems/identity-access-management/create-permissions-guardrails)
- [Centralize identity management](/well-architected-framework/secure-systems/identity-access-management/centralize-identity-management)
- [Implement strong authentication methods](/well-architected-framework/secure-systems/identity-access-management/implement-strong-sign-in-workflows)
- [Use dynamic credentials](/well-architected-framework/secure-systems/identity-access-management/use-dynamic-credentials)
- [Manage access lifecycle](/well-architected-framework/secure-systems/identity-access-management/manage-access-lifecycle)

In this section of Identity and access management, you learned the importance
of using least privilege in your policies governing access requirements.
Identity and access management is part of the [Secure
systems](/well-architected-framework/secure-systems) pillar.
