content/well-architected-framework/docs/docs/secure-systems/identity-access-management/manage-access-lifecycle.mdx, before:

---
page_title: Account management lifecycle
description: Create a plan to manage the lifecycle of user accounts and their access permissions.
---

# Account management lifecycle

Ensuring users and services have the appropriate access to systems and data is a
continuous process. Managing the access lifecycle involves regularly reviewing
and updating access permissions, as well as deprovisioning access when it is no
longer needed. Properly managing the access lifecycle helps support a secure
environment and reduces the risk of unauthorized access.

## What is access lifecycle management

Access lifecycle management is the process of managing user accounts and their
access permissions throughout their lifecycle, from creation to deprovisioning.
The management includes onboarding new users, modifying access as roles change,
and removing access when it is no longer needed.

## Why manage access lifecycle

Failing to manage identity and access for users and services can lead to
incidents, whether malicious or accidental. For example, if a user leaves the
organization or changes roles and their account is not deprovisioned, they may
still have access to systems and data to which they are not authorized.

A publishing company in the 2000s let go of one of its system administrators but
failed to deprovision their account in an email system that they had not
securely managed. The former employee logged in and forwarded thousands of spam
emails to employees, causing a significant disruption to their day. By properly
managing accounts from creation through deletion, you can avoid incidents caused
by unauthorized access.

By [centralizing identity
management](/well-architected-framework/secure-systems/identity-access-management/centralize-identity-management),
you can streamline the access lifecycle for provisioning and deprovisioning
users. Centralizing identity management allows you to update group membership,
reset passwords, or deprovision accounts when they are no longer needed.

When you combine centralized identity management with [dynamic
credentials](/well-architected-framework/secure-systems/identity-access-management/use-dynamic-credentials),
you further limit the attack surface by reducing the number of long-lived
credentials that you need to manage.

NIST SP 800-53 outlines the account management process in detail, including
the following key activities:

- Account creation and provisioning
- Account modification and review
- Account deprovisioning and removal
- Access reviews and audits

![Diagram showing the account management lifecycle.](/img/well-architected-framework/diagram-iam-lifecycle.png#light-theme-only)
![Diagram showing the account management lifecycle.](/img/well-architected-framework/diagram-iam-lifecycle-dark.png#dark-theme-only)

Following these practices helps you properly manage accounts and ensure
your users and services that require access to a system have access.

Combining proper lifecycle management with [securely storing
secrets](/well-architected-framework/secure-systems/secrets/store-static-secrets)
and [rotating
secrets](/well-architected-framework/secure-systems/secrets/rotate-secrets)
builds a strong security foundation for your organization.

HashiCorp Vault fundamentally changes how you manage access lifecycle by
eliminating long-lived credentials:

- **Dynamic secrets** - Instead of creating permanent credentials during user
  onboarding, Vault generates temporary credentials on-demand when users need
  access. These credentials automatically expire, removing the need for manual
  deprovisioning in many scenarios.
- **Lease management** - Every secret issued by Vault has an associated lease.
  When a user’s employment ends or their role changes, revoking their Vault
  token automatically revokes all associated dynamic credentials across
  databases, cloud providers, and other systems.

HashiCorp Boundary enforces access lifecycle through just-in-time access
patterns:

- **Session-based access** - Rather than granting permanent access to
  infrastructure, Boundary creates temporary sessions. When a session ends,
  access automatically terminates.
- **Time-limited targets** - Configure targets with expiration times to
  automatically deprovision access to specific systems after a defined period.
- **Identity integration** - Connect Boundary to your identity provider so that
  when you deprovision a user from the identity provider, they lose the ability to
  create new sessions to infrastructure resources.

HashiCorp resources:

- [Understand static and dynamic secrets](/vault/tutorials/get-started/understand-static-dynamic-secrets)
- [Use Vault-backed dynamic secrets in HCP Terraform](/terraform/cloud-docs/workspaces/dynamic-provider-credentials/vault-backed)
- [Connect to Kubernetes using Vault and Boundary](/boundary/tutorials/kubernetes-connect/kubernetes-getting-started-intro)
- [HCP Boundary Vault credential brokering quickstart](/boundary/tutorials/credential-management/hcp-vault-cred-brokering-quickstart)
- [SSH certificate injection with HCP Boundary and Vault](/boundary/tutorials/credential-management/hcp-certificate-injection)

External resources:

- [NIST SP 800-53 Security and Privacy Controls for Information Systems](https://csrc.nist.gov/pubs/sp/800/53/r5/upd1/final)

## Next steps

Following these documents in order ensures a logical progression through the key
concepts and best practices, helping you build a strong foundation to build your
identity and access management program.

- [Define access requirements](/well-architected-framework/secure-systems/identity-access-management/define-access-requirements)
- [Grant least privilege](/well-architected-framework/secure-systems/identity-access-management/grant-least-privilege)
- [Create permissions and guardrails](/well-architected-framework/secure-systems/identity-access-management/create-permissions-guardrails)
- [Centralize identity management](/well-architected-framework/secure-systems/identity-access-management/centralize-identity-management)
- [Implement strong sign-in workflows](/well-architected-framework/secure-systems/identity-access-management/implement-strong-sign-in-workflows)
- [Use dynamic credentials](/well-architected-framework/secure-systems/identity-access-management/use-dynamic-credentials)
- **Manage access lifecycle (this document)**

In this section of **Identity and access management** you learned why its
important to manage the full lifecycle of user accounts and permissions.
Identity and access management is part of the [Secure
systems](/well-architected-framework/secure-systems) pillar.

Commit message:

first pass at this batch of seo changes for secure systems

content/well-architected-framework/docs/docs/secure-systems/identity-access-management/manage-access-lifecycle.mdx, after:

---
page_title: Manage user account lifecycle and access permissions
description: Learn how to manage user accounts from creation to deprovisioning and best practices for access reviews, role changes, and preventing unauthorized access.
---

# Manage user account lifecycle and access permissions

Ensuring users and services have the appropriate access to systems and data is a
continuous process. Managing the access lifecycle involves regularly reviewing
and updating access permissions, as well as deprovisioning access when it is no
longer needed. Properly managing the access lifecycle helps support a secure
environment and reduces the risk of unauthorized access.

## What is access lifecycle management

Access lifecycle management is the process of managing user accounts and their
access permissions throughout their lifecycle, from creation to deprovisioning.
The management includes onboarding new users, modifying access as roles change,
and removing access when it is no longer needed.

## Risks of poor access lifecycle management

Failing to manage identity and access for users and services can lead to
incidents, whether malicious or accidental. For example, if a user leaves the
organization or changes roles and their account is not deprovisioned, they may
still have access to systems and data to which they are not authorized.

A publishing company in the 2000s let go of one of its system administrators but
failed to deprovision their account in an email system that they had not
securely managed. The former employee logged in and forwarded thousands of spam
emails to employees, causing a significant disruption to their day. By properly
managing accounts from creation through deletion, you can avoid incidents caused
by unauthorized access.

By [centralizing identity
management](/well-architected-framework/secure-systems/identity-access-management/centralize-identity-management),
you can streamline the access lifecycle for provisioning and deprovisioning
users. Centralizing identity management allows you to update group membership,
reset passwords, or deprovision accounts when they are no longer needed.

When you combine centralized identity management with [dynamic
credentials](/well-architected-framework/secure-systems/identity-access-management/use-dynamic-credentials),
you further limit the attack surface by reducing the number of long-lived
credentials that you need to manage.

NIST SP 800-53 outlines the account management process in detail, including
the following key activities:

- Account creation and provisioning
- Account modification and review
- Account deprovisioning and removal
- Access reviews and audits

![Account management lifecycle diagram showing four phases: creation and provisioning, modification and review, deprovisioning and removal, and access audits.](/img/well-architected-framework/diagram-iam-lifecycle.png#light-theme-only)
![Account management lifecycle diagram showing four phases: creation and provisioning, modification and review, deprovisioning and removal, and access audits.](/img/well-architected-framework/diagram-iam-lifecycle-dark.png#dark-theme-only)

Following these practices helps you properly manage accounts and ensure
your users and services that require access to a system have access.

Combining proper lifecycle management with [securely storing
secrets](/well-architected-framework/secure-systems/secrets/store-static-secrets)
and [rotating
secrets](/well-architected-framework/secure-systems/secrets/rotate-secrets)
builds a strong security foundation for your organization.

## Automate access lifecycle management with dynamic credentials

HashiCorp Vault fundamentally changes how you manage access lifecycle by
eliminating long-lived credentials:

- **Dynamic secrets** - Instead of creating permanent credentials during user
  onboarding, Vault generates temporary credentials on-demand when users need
  access. These credentials automatically expire, removing the need for manual
  deprovisioning in many scenarios.
- **Lease management** - Every secret issued by Vault has an associated lease.
  When a user’s employment ends or their role changes, revoking their Vault
  token automatically revokes all associated dynamic credentials across
  databases, cloud providers, and other systems.

HashiCorp Boundary enforces access lifecycle through just-in-time access
patterns:

- **Session-based access** - Rather than granting permanent access to
  infrastructure, Boundary creates temporary sessions. When a session ends,
  access automatically terminates.
- **Time-limited targets** - Configure targets with expiration times to
  automatically deprovision access to specific systems after a defined period.
- **Identity integration** - Connect Boundary to your identity provider so that
  when you deprovision a user from the identity provider, they lose the ability to
  create new sessions to infrastructure resources.

HashiCorp resources:

- [Understand static and dynamic secrets](/vault/tutorials/get-started/understand-static-dynamic-secrets)
- [Use Vault-backed dynamic secrets in HCP Terraform](/terraform/cloud-docs/workspaces/dynamic-provider-credentials/vault-backed)
- [Connect to Kubernetes using Vault and Boundary](/boundary/tutorials/kubernetes-connect/kubernetes-getting-started-intro)
- [HCP Boundary Vault credential brokering quickstart](/boundary/tutorials/credential-management/hcp-vault-cred-brokering-quickstart)
- [SSH certificate injection with HCP Boundary and Vault](/boundary/tutorials/credential-management/hcp-certificate-injection)

External resources:

- [NIST SP 800-53 Security and Privacy Controls for Information Systems](https://csrc.nist.gov/pubs/sp/800/53/r5/upd1/final)

## Next steps

Following these documents in order ensures a logical progression through the key
concepts and best practices, helping you build a strong foundation to build your
identity and access management program.

- [Define access requirements](/well-architected-framework/secure-systems/identity-access-management/define-access-requirements)
- [Grant least privilege](/well-architected-framework/secure-systems/identity-access-management/grant-least-privilege)
- [Create permissions and guardrails](/well-architected-framework/secure-systems/identity-access-management/create-permissions-guardrails)
- [Centralize identity management](/well-architected-framework/secure-systems/identity-access-management/centralize-identity-management)
- [Implement strong sign-in workflows](/well-architected-framework/secure-systems/identity-access-management/implement-strong-sign-in-workflows)
- [Use dynamic credentials](/well-architected-framework/secure-systems/identity-access-management/use-dynamic-credentials)
- **Manage access lifecycle (this document)**

In this section of **Identity and access management** you learned why its
important to manage the full lifecycle of user accounts and permissions.
Identity and access management is part of the [Secure
systems](/well-architected-framework/secure-systems) pillar.
