content/well-architected-framework/docs/docs/secure-systems/identity-access-management/use-dynamic-credentials.mdx, before:

---
page_title: Use dynamic credentials
description: Use dynamic credentials to replace long-lived accounts that are not used often to improve security.
---

# Use dynamic credentials

Strong identity and access management practices are critical to building a
secure environment. While some credentials must always be available, others can
be dynamic and short-lived, reducing the risk of exposure while enhancing your
security posture.

## What are dynamic credentials

Dynamic credentials are temporary, short-lived credentials generated on demand
and automatically expire after a specified period. The credentials are typically
used in scenarios where long-lived credentials are not necessary or pose a
security risk.

<VideoEmbed url="https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=1YNDSCcGbcQ"/>

## Why use dynamic credentials

You can generate dynamic credentials for various services, applications,
and users, allowing them to authenticate without exposing their long-term credentials.
Using dynamic credentials minimizes the attack surface and reduces the likelihood of
credential theft or misuse.

When a service needs to connect to another service, such as a database, it
requires some method to authenticate. Traditionally, you might use a username
and password or an API token. When these credentials are available for an
extended period, there is a greater potential for them to become compromised.

<VideoEmbed url="https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=E9XDfOVNN2U"/>

HashiCorp Vault supports generating dynamic credentials for various cloud
providers and other systems. For example, Vault can generate dynamic
credentials using a supported secrets engine for Kubernetes, AWS, Azure, Google Cloud, and
database services like PostgreSQL, MySQL, and Microsoft SQL.

Many of the secrets engines supported by Vault allow you to manage static
credentials as well. You onboard the static account to Vault, allowing Vault to
manage the lifecycle of the password for that account when dynamic
credentials are not supported.

Vault dynamic secrets also integrate with other HashiCorp tools and services
like Boundary, allowing you to provide secure access to developers without ever
having to share or expose the credentials.

<VideoEmbed url="https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=69UFSAIDQgM"/>

HCP Terraform integrates with Vault allowing Terraform to generate dynamic
credentials during a deployment. Configuring Terraform to request dynamic
credentials from Vault allows you to avoid managing static credentials separately.

HashiCorp resources: 

- [Understand static and dynamic secrets](/vault/tutorials/get-started/understand-static-dynamic-secrets)
- [Use Vault-backed dynamic secrets in HCP Terraform](/terraform/cloud-docs/workspaces/dynamic-provider-credentials/vault-backed)
- [Connect to Kubernetes using Vault and Boundary](/boundary/tutorials/kubernetes-connect/kubernetes-getting-started-intro)
- [HCP Boundary Vault credential brokering quickstart](/boundary/tutorials/credential-management/hcp-vault-cred-brokering-quickstart)
- [SSH certificate injection with HCP Boundary and Vault](/boundary/tutorials/credential-management/hcp-certificate-injection)

External resources:

- [NIST SP 800-53 Security and Privacy Controls for Information Systems](https://csrc.nist.gov/pubs/sp/800/53/r5/upd1/final)
- [NIST SP 800-207 Zero Trust Architecture](https://csrc.nist.gov/pubs/sp/800/207/final)
- [OWASP Credential Management Cheat Sheet](https://cheatsheetseries.owasp.org/cheatsheets/Secrets_Management_Cheat_Sheet.html)

## Next steps

Following these documents in order ensures a logical progression through the key
concepts and best practices, helping you build a strong foundation to build your
identity and access management program.

- [Define access requirements](/well-architected-framework/secure-systems/identity-access-management/define-access-requirements)
- [Grant least privilege](/well-architected-framework/secure-systems/identity-access-management/grant-least-privilege)
- [Create permissions and guardrails](/well-architected-framework/secure-systems/identity-access-management/create-permissions-guardrails)
- [Centralize identity management](/well-architected-framework/secure-systems/identity-access-management/centralize-identity-management)
- [Implement strong sign-in workflows](/well-architected-framework/secure-systems/identity-access-management/implement-strong-sign-in-workflows)
- **Use dynamic credentials (this document)**
- [Manage access lifecycle](/well-architected-framework/secure-systems/identity-access-management/manage-access-lifecycle)

In this section of **Identity and access management** you learned how replacing
long-lived, static credentials with temporary credentials helps improve security.
Identity and access management is part of the [Secure
systems](/well-architected-framework/secure-systems) pillar.

Commit message:

first pass at this batch of seo changes for secure systems

content/well-architected-framework/docs/docs/secure-systems/identity-access-management/use-dynamic-credentials.mdx, after:

---
page_title: Use dynamic credentials for secure authentication
description: Learn how to generate short-lived credentials on demand to minimize attack surfaces and stop credential theft. Automatic expiration eliminates long-term security risks.
---

# Use dynamic credentials for secure authentication

Long-lived credentials create security vulnerabilities in 
your infrastructure. Dynamic credentials minimize this problem 
by generating temporary access tokens on demand.

## What are dynamic credentials

Dynamic credentials are temporary, short-lived credentials generated on demand
and automatically expire after a specified period. The credentials are typically
used in scenarios where long-lived credentials are not necessary or pose a
security risk.

<VideoEmbed url="https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=1YNDSCcGbcQ"/>

## Reduce credential exposure

You can generate dynamic credentials for various services, applications,
and users, allowing them to authenticate without exposing their long-term credentials.
Using dynamic credentials minimizes the attack surface and reduces the likelihood of
credential theft or misuse.

When a service needs to connect to another service, such as a database, it
requires some method to authenticate. Traditionally, you might use a username
and password or an API token. When these credentials are available for an
extended period, there is a greater potential for them to become compromised.

<VideoEmbed url="https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=E9XDfOVNN2U"/>

## Create dynamic credentials with Vault

Vault creates dynamic credentials across multiple platforms, removing the need for long-lived static credentials in your infrastructure. Vault integrates with major cloud providers, container orchestration platforms, and database systems through its secrets engines.

The following are some of the Vault secret engines that support dynamic
credentials:

- AWS
- Azure
- Google Cloud
- Kubernetes
- PostgreSQL
- MySQL
- Microsoft SQL

Many of the secrets engines Vault supports allow you to manage static
credentials as well. You onboard the static account to Vault, allowing Vault to
manage the lifecycle of the password for that account when dynamic
credentials are not supported.

Vault dynamic secrets also integrate with other HashiCorp tools and services
like Boundary, allowing you to provide secure access to developers without ever
having to share or expose the credentials.

<VideoEmbed url="https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=69UFSAIDQgM"/>

HCP Terraform integrates with Vault allowing Terraform to generate dynamic
credentials during a deployment. Configuring Terraform to request dynamic
credentials from Vault allows you to avoid managing static credentials separately.

HashiCorp resources: 

- [Understand static and dynamic secrets](/vault/tutorials/get-started/understand-static-dynamic-secrets)
- [Use Vault-backed dynamic secrets in HCP Terraform](/terraform/cloud-docs/workspaces/dynamic-provider-credentials/vault-backed)
- [Connect to Kubernetes using Vault and Boundary](/boundary/tutorials/kubernetes-connect/kubernetes-getting-started-intro)
- [HCP Boundary Vault credential brokering quickstart](/boundary/tutorials/credential-management/hcp-vault-cred-brokering-quickstart)
- [SSH certificate injection with HCP Boundary and Vault](/boundary/tutorials/credential-management/hcp-certificate-injection)
- [View Vault's secrets engines](/vault/docs/secrets).

External resources:

- [NIST SP 800-53 Security and Privacy Controls for Information Systems](https://csrc.nist.gov/pubs/sp/800/53/r5/upd1/final)
- [NIST SP 800-207 Zero Trust Architecture](https://csrc.nist.gov/pubs/sp/800/207/final)
- [OWASP Credential Management Cheat Sheet](https://cheatsheetseries.owasp.org/cheatsheets/Secrets_Management_Cheat_Sheet.html)

## Next steps

Following these documents in order ensures a logical progression through the key
concepts and best practices, helping you build a strong foundation to build your
identity and access management program.

- [Define access requirements](/well-architected-framework/secure-systems/identity-access-management/define-access-requirements)
- [Grant least privilege](/well-architected-framework/secure-systems/identity-access-management/grant-least-privilege)
- [Create permissions and guardrails](/well-architected-framework/secure-systems/identity-access-management/create-permissions-guardrails)
- [Centralize identity management](/well-architected-framework/secure-systems/identity-access-management/centralize-identity-management)
- [Implement strong sign-in workflows](/well-architected-framework/secure-systems/identity-access-management/implement-strong-sign-in-workflows)
- **Use dynamic credentials (this document)**
- [Manage access lifecycle](/well-architected-framework/secure-systems/identity-access-management/manage-access-lifecycle)

In this section of **Identity and access management** you learned how replacing
long-lived, static credentials with temporary credentials helps improve security.
Identity and access management is part of the [Secure
systems](/well-architected-framework/secure-systems) pillar.
