---
page_title: Timeouts
description: >-
  Learn how to migrate timeouts from SDKv2 to the framework.
---

# Timeouts

The framework can be used in conjunction with the
[terraform-plugin-framework-timeouts](https://github.com/hashicorp/terraform-plugin-framework-timeouts)
module in order to allow defining timeouts in configuration and have them be
available in CRUD functions.

In framework providers, you can define timeouts using either nested blocks or
nested attributes.

If you are writing a new provider using
[terraform-plugin-framework](https://github.com/hashicorp/terraform-plugin-framework),
then we recommend using nested attributes.

If you are migrating a provider from SDKv2 to the framework and you are already
using timeouts you can either continue to use block syntax, or switch to using
nested attributes. However, switching to using nested attributes will require
that practitioners that are using your provider update their Terraform
configuration. Remember to only introduce breaking changes to your provider in
[major version
updates](/terraform/plugin/best-practices/versioning#versioning-specification).

If your provider includes timeouts in functions in which the config, state or
plan is being unmarshalled, for instance, the `Create` function, you will need
to [update your resource's model](#updating-models) to refer to the timeout
fields.

Once you have added timeouts to your resource's model, you can [access them in
CRUD functions](#accessing-timeouts-in-crud-functions) by using helper functions
provider by the `timeouts` module.

## Background

The reality of cloud infrastructure is that it typically takes time to perform
operations such as booting operating systems, discovering services, and
replicating state across network edges. As the provider developer you should
take known delays in resource APIs into account in the CRUD functions of the
resource. Terraform supports configurable timeouts to assist in these
situations.

## Migrating timeouts in nested blocks

If your provider configuration uses a nested block to define timeouts, such as
the following:

```hcl
resource "timeouts_example" "example" {
  /* ... */

  timeouts {
    create = "60m"
  }
}
```

You can use the the [timeouts
module](https://github.com/hashicorp/terraform-plugin-framework-timeouts) to
implement the timeouts, and use it to mutate your resource schema to add the
timeout block.

First add the timeouts module to your resource type:

```go
import (
    /* ... */
    "github.com/hashicorp/terraform-plugin-framework-timeouts/resource/timeouts"
)
````

Then use this module to mutate your resource's
[`schema.Schema`](https://pkg.go.dev/github.com/hashicorp/terraform-plugin-framework/resource/schema#Schema)
as follows:

```go
func (t *exampleResource) Schema(ctx context.Context, req resource.SchemaRequest, resp *resource.SchemaResponse) {
    resp.Schema = schema.Schema{
        /* ... */

        Blocks: map[string]schema.Block{
            "timeouts": timeouts.Block(ctx, timeouts.Opts{
                Create: true,
            }),
        },
```

## Migrating timeouts in nested attributes

If your provider configuration uses nested attributes to define timeouts, such
as the following:

```hcl
resource "timeouts_example" "example" {
  /* ... */

  timeouts = {
    create = "60m"
  }
}
```

You can use the the [timeouts
module](https://github.com/hashicorp/terraform-plugin-framework-timeouts) to
implement the timeouts, and use it to mutate your resource schema to add the
timeout attribute.

First add the timeouts module to your resource type:

```go
import (
    /* ... */
    "github.com/hashicorp/terraform-plugin-framework-timeouts/resource/timeouts"
)
````

Then use this module to mutate the `schema.Schema` as follows:

```go
func (t *exampleResource) Schema(ctx context.Context, req resource.SchemaRequest, resp *resource.SchemaResponse) {
    resp.Schema = schema.Schema{
        Attributes: map[string]schema.Attribute{
            /* ... */
            "timeouts": timeouts.Attributes(ctx, timeouts.Opts{
                Create: true,
            }),
        },
```

## Updating models

When you use timeouts in functions in which the config, state or plan is being
unmarshalled, for instance, the `Create` function, you will need to update your
resource's model to include a field for the timeouts.

```go
func (e *exampleResource) Create(ctx context.Context, req resource.CreateRequest, resp *resource.CreateResponse) {
	var data exampleResourceData

	diags := req.Plan.Get(ctx, &data)
	resp.Diagnostics.Append(diags...)
```

Modify the `exampleResourceData` model to include a field for timeouts using a
[`timeouts.Value`](https://pkg.go.dev/github.com/hashicorp/terraform-plugin-framework-timeouts/resource/timeouts#Value)
type.

```go
type exampleResourceData struct {
    /* ... */
    Timeouts    timeouts.Value `tfsdk:"timeouts"`
```

## Accessing timeouts in CRUD functions

Once the model has been populated with the config, state or plan the duration of
the timeout can be accessed by calling the appropriate helper function (e.g.,
[`timeouts.Create`](https://pkg.go.dev/github.com/hashicorp/terraform-plugin-framework-timeouts/resource/timeouts#Value.Create))
and then used to configure timeout behaviour, for instance:

```go
func (e *exampleResource) Create(ctx context.Context, req resource.CreateRequest, resp *resource.CreateResponse) {
    var data exampleResourceData

    diags := req.Plan.Get(ctx, &data)
    resp.Diagnostics.Append(diags...)
    if resp.Diagnostics.HasError() {
        return
    }

    createTimeout, diags := data.Timeouts.Create(ctx, 20*time.Minute)

    resp.Diagnostics.Append(diags...)

    if resp.Diagnostics.HasError() {
        return
    }

    ctx, cancel := context.WithTimeout(ctx, createTimeout)
    defer cancel()

    /* ... */
}
```

<!-- FIXME: Any migration examples to include? -->
