content/nomad/v1.11.x/content/commands/job/stop.mdx, before:

---
layout: docs
page_title: 'nomad job stop command reference'
description: |
  The `nomad job stop` command stops a running job and signals the scheduler
  to cancel all of the job's running allocations.
---

# `nomad job stop` command reference

**Alias: `nomad stop`**

The `job stop` command is used to stop a running job and signals the scheduler
to cancel all the running allocations.

## Usage

```plaintext
nomad job stop [options] <job 1> <job 2> ... <job N>
```

The `job stop` command requires at least one job ID or prefix to stop. If there
is an exact match based on the provided job ID or prefix, then the job will be
cancelled. Otherwise, a list of matching jobs and information will be
displayed.

Stop will issue a request to deregister the matched jobs and then invoke an
interactive monitor that exits automatically once the scheduler has processed
the requests. It is safe to exit the monitor early using ctrl+c.

When ACLs are enabled, this command requires a token with the `submit-job`
and `read-job` capabilities for the job's namespace. The `list-jobs`
capability is required to run the command with job prefixes instead of exact
job IDs.

## Options

- `-detach`: Return immediately instead of entering monitor mode. After the
  deregister command is submitted, a new evaluation ID is printed to the screen,
  which can be used to examine the evaluation using the [eval status] command.

- `-eval-priority`: Override the priority of the evaluations produced as a result
  of this job deregistration. By default, this is set to the priority of the job.

- `-verbose`: Show full information.

- `-yes`: Automatic yes to prompts.

- `-purge`: Purge is used to stop the job and purge it from the system. If not
  set, the job will still be queryable and will be purged by the garbage
  collector.

- `-global`
  Stop a [multi-region] job in all its regions. By default, `job stop` will
  stop only a single region at a time. Ignored for single-region jobs.

- `-no-shutdown-delay`
  Ignore the group and task [`shutdown_delay`] configuration so that
  there is no delay between service deregistration and task
  shutdown. Note that using this flag will result in failed network
  connections to the allocations being stopped.

## Examples

Stop the job with ID "job1":

```shell-session
$ nomad job stop job1
==> Monitoring evaluation "43bfe672"
    Evaluation status changed: "pending" -> "complete"
==> Evaluation "43bfe672" finished with status "complete"
```

Stop multiple jobs:

```shell-session
$ nomad job stop job1 job2
==> 2022-12-16T15:19:28-08:00: Monitoring evaluation "166c39c5"
==> 2022-12-16T15:19:28-08:00: Monitoring evaluation "049404c2"
    2022-12-16T15:19:28-08:00: Evaluation triggered by job "job1"
    2022-12-16T15:19:28-08:00: Evaluation triggered by job "job2"
    2022-12-16T15:19:28-08:00: Evaluation within deployment: "90885ce7"
    2022-12-16T15:19:28-08:00: Evaluation status changed: "pending" -> "complete"
==> 2022-12-16T15:19:28-08:00: Evaluation "166c39c5" finished with status "complete"
==> 2022-12-16T15:19:28-08:00: Monitoring deployment "90885ce7"
  ✓ Deployment "90885ce7" successful

    2022-12-16T15:19:28-08:00
    ID          = 90885ce7
    Job ID      = job1
    Job Version = 0
    Status      = successful
    Description = Deployment completed successfully

    Deployed
    Task Group  Desired  Placed  Healthy  Unhealthy  Progress Deadline
    example     1        1       1        0          2022-12-16T15:29:03-08:00
==> 2022-12-16T15:19:29-08:00: Monitoring evaluation "049404c2"
    2022-12-16T15:19:29-08:00: Evaluation within deployment: "a13df8f8"
    2022-12-16T15:19:29-08:00: Evaluation status changed: "pending" -> "complete"
==> 2022-12-16T15:19:29-08:00: Evaluation "049404c2" finished with status "complete"
==> 2022-12-16T15:19:29-08:00: Monitoring deployment "a13df8f8"
  ✓ Deployment "a13df8f8" successful

    2022-12-16T15:19:29-08:00
    ID          = a13df8f8
    Job ID      = job2
    Job Version = 0
    Status      = successful
    Description = Deployment completed successfully

    Deployed
    Task Group  Desired  Placed  Healthy  Unhealthy  Progress Deadline
    example2    1        1       1        0          2022-12-16T15:29:16-08:00
```

Stop the job with ID "job1" and return immediately:

```shell-session
$ nomad job stop -detach job1
507d26cb
```

## General options

@include 'general_options.mdx'

[eval status]: /nomad/commands/eval/status
[multi-region]: /nomad/docs/job-specification/multiregion
[`shutdown_delay`]: /nomad/docs/job-specification/group#shutdown_delay

Commit message:

Nomad: adding policy & acl updates for new job capabilities (#1665)
* add new fine-grain capabilites to policy page

* add additional ACL capabilities to appropriate commands

* add additional ACL capabilities to appropriate api-docs

* update deregister-job capability to specify gc behavior

* make sentinel permission addition explicit in api-docs

content/nomad/v1.11.x/content/commands/job/stop.mdx, after:

---
layout: docs
page_title: 'nomad job stop command reference'
description: |
  The `nomad job stop` command stops a running job and signals the scheduler
  to cancel all of the job's running allocations.
---

# `nomad job stop` command reference

**Alias: `nomad stop`**

The `job stop` command is used to stop a running job and signals the scheduler
to cancel all the running allocations.

## Usage

```plaintext
nomad job stop [options] <job 1> <job 2> ... <job N>
```

The `job stop` command requires at least one job ID or prefix to stop. If there
is an exact match based on the provided job ID or prefix, then the job will be
cancelled. Otherwise, a list of matching jobs and information will be
displayed.

Stop will issue a request to deregister the matched jobs and then invoke an
interactive monitor that exits automatically once the scheduler has processed
the requests. It is safe to exit the monitor early using ctrl+c.

When ACLs are enabled, this command requires a token with either the
`submit-job`, `deregister-job`, or `purge-job` capabilites, and `read-job`
capabilities for the job's namespace. The `list-jobs` capability is required to
run the command with job prefixes instead of exact job IDs.

## Options

- `-detach`: Return immediately instead of entering monitor mode. After the
  deregister command is submitted, a new evaluation ID is printed to the screen,
  which can be used to examine the evaluation using the [eval status] command.

- `-eval-priority`: Override the priority of the evaluations produced as a result
  of this job deregistration. By default, this is set to the priority of the job.

- `-verbose`: Show full information.

- `-yes`: Automatic yes to prompts.

- `-purge`: Purge is used to stop the job and purge it from the system. If not
  set, the job will still be queryable and will be purged by the garbage
  collector. Note: The `deregister-job` capability will not allow purging of a job.

- `-global`
  Stop a [multi-region] job in all its regions. By default, `job stop` will
  stop only a single region at a time. Ignored for single-region jobs.

- `-no-shutdown-delay`
  Ignore the group and task [`shutdown_delay`] configuration so that
  there is no delay between service deregistration and task
  shutdown. Note that using this flag will result in failed network
  connections to the allocations being stopped.

## Examples

Stop the job with ID "job1":

```shell-session
$ nomad job stop job1
==> Monitoring evaluation "43bfe672"
    Evaluation status changed: "pending" -> "complete"
==> Evaluation "43bfe672" finished with status "complete"
```

Stop multiple jobs:

```shell-session
$ nomad job stop job1 job2
==> 2022-12-16T15:19:28-08:00: Monitoring evaluation "166c39c5"
==> 2022-12-16T15:19:28-08:00: Monitoring evaluation "049404c2"
    2022-12-16T15:19:28-08:00: Evaluation triggered by job "job1"
    2022-12-16T15:19:28-08:00: Evaluation triggered by job "job2"
    2022-12-16T15:19:28-08:00: Evaluation within deployment: "90885ce7"
    2022-12-16T15:19:28-08:00: Evaluation status changed: "pending" -> "complete"
==> 2022-12-16T15:19:28-08:00: Evaluation "166c39c5" finished with status "complete"
==> 2022-12-16T15:19:28-08:00: Monitoring deployment "90885ce7"
  ✓ Deployment "90885ce7" successful

    2022-12-16T15:19:28-08:00
    ID          = 90885ce7
    Job ID      = job1
    Job Version = 0
    Status      = successful
    Description = Deployment completed successfully

    Deployed
    Task Group  Desired  Placed  Healthy  Unhealthy  Progress Deadline
    example     1        1       1        0          2022-12-16T15:29:03-08:00
==> 2022-12-16T15:19:29-08:00: Monitoring evaluation "049404c2"
    2022-12-16T15:19:29-08:00: Evaluation within deployment: "a13df8f8"
    2022-12-16T15:19:29-08:00: Evaluation status changed: "pending" -> "complete"
==> 2022-12-16T15:19:29-08:00: Evaluation "049404c2" finished with status "complete"
==> 2022-12-16T15:19:29-08:00: Monitoring deployment "a13df8f8"
  ✓ Deployment "a13df8f8" successful

    2022-12-16T15:19:29-08:00
    ID          = a13df8f8
    Job ID      = job2
    Job Version = 0
    Status      = successful
    Description = Deployment completed successfully

    Deployed
    Task Group  Desired  Placed  Healthy  Unhealthy  Progress Deadline
    example2    1        1       1        0          2022-12-16T15:29:16-08:00
```

Stop the job with ID "job1" and return immediately:

```shell-session
$ nomad job stop -detach job1
507d26cb
```

## General options

@include 'general_options.mdx'

[eval status]: /nomad/commands/eval/status
[multi-region]: /nomad/docs/job-specification/multiregion
[`shutdown_delay`]: /nomad/docs/job-specification/group#shutdown_delay
