content/vault/v1.21.x/content/docs/auth/jwt/oidc-providers/azuread.mdx, before:

---
layout: docs
page_title: Use Azure AD for OIDC
description: >-
  Configure Vault to use Azure Active Directory (AD) as an OIDC provider.
---

# Use Azure AD for OIDC authentication

~> **Note:** Azure Active Directory Applications that have custom signing keys as a result of using
the [claims-mapping](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/active-directory/develop/active-directory-claims-mapping)
feature are currently not supported for OIDC authentication.

Reference: [Azure Active Directory v2.0 and the OpenID Connect protocol](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/active-directory/develop/v2-protocols-oidc)

1. Choose your Azure tenant.

1. Go to **Azure Active Directory** and
   [register an application](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/active-directory/develop/quickstart-register-app)
   for Vault.

1. Add Redirect URIs with the "Web" type. You may include two redirect URIs,
   one for CLI access another one for Vault UI access.

    - `http://localhost:8250/oidc/callback`
    - `https://hostname:port_number/ui/vault/auth/oidc/oidc/callback`

1. Record the "Application (client) ID" as you will need it as the `oidc_client_id`.

1. Under **Endpoints**, copy the OpenID Connect metadata document URL, omitting the `/well-known...` portion.

   - The endpoint URL (`oidc_discovery_url`) will look like: https://login.microsoftonline.com/tenant-guid-dead-beef-aaaa-aaaa/v2.0

1. Under **Certificates & secrets**,
   [add a client secret](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/active-directory/develop/quickstart-register-app#add-a-client-secret)
   Record the secret's value as you will need it as the `oidc_client_secret` for Vault.

### Connect AD group with Vault external group

Reference: [Azure Active Directory with OIDC Auth Method and External Groups](/vault/tutorials/auth-methods/oidc-auth-azure)

To connect the AD group with a [Vault external groups](/vault/docs/secrets/identity#external-vs-internal-groups),
you will need
[Azure AD v2.0 endpoints](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-gb/azure/active-directory/develop/azure-ad-endpoint-comparison).
You should set up a [Vault policy](/vault/tutorials/policies/policies) for the Azure AD group to use.

1. Go to **Azure Active Directory** and choose your Vault application.

1. Go to **Token configuration** and **Add groups claim**. Select "All" or "SecurityGroup" based on
   [which groups for a user](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/active-directory/hybrid/how-to-connect-fed-group-claims)
   you want returned in the claim.

1. In Vault, enable the OIDC auth method.

1. Configure the OIDC auth method with the `oidc_client_id` (application ID), `oidc_client_secret`
   (client secret), and `oidc_discovery_url` (endpoint URL) you recorded from Azure.
   ```shell
   vault write auth/oidc/config \
      oidc_client_id="your_client_id" \
      oidc_client_secret="your_client_secret" \
      default_role="your_default_role" \
      oidc_discovery_url="https://login.microsoftonline.com/tenant_id/v2.0"
   ```

1. Configure the [OIDC Role](/vault/api-docs/auth/jwt#create-role) with the following:

   - `user_claim` should be `"sub"` or `"oid"` following the
   [recommendation](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/active-directory/develop/id-token-claims-reference#use-claims-to-reliably-identify-a-user)
  from Azure.
   - `allowed_redirect_uris` should be the two redirect URIs for Vault CLI and UI access.
   - `groups_claim` should be set to `"groups"`.
   - `oidc_scopes` should be set to `"https://graph.microsoft.com/.default profile"`.
   
   ```shell
   vault write auth/oidc/role/your_default_role \
      user_claim="sub" \
      allowed_redirect_uris="http://localhost:8250/oidc/callback,https://online_version_hostname:port_number/ui/vault/auth/oidc/oidc/callback"  \
      groups_claim="groups" \
      oidc_scopes="https://graph.microsoft.com/.default profile" \
      policies=default
   ```

1. In Vault, create the [external group](/vault/api-docs/secret/identity/group).
   Record the group ID as you will need it for the group alias.

1. From Vault, retrieve the [OIDC accessor ID](/vault/api-docs/system/auth#list-auth-methods)
   from the OIDC auth method as you will need it for the group alias's `mount_accessor`.

1. Go to the Azure AD Group you want to attach to Vault's external group. Record the `objectId`
   as you will need it as the group alias name in Vault.

1. In Vault, create a [group alias](/vault/api-docs/secret/identity/group-alias)
   for the external group and set the `objectId` as the group alias name.
   ```shell
   vault write identity/group-alias \
      name="your_ad_group_object_id" \
      mount_accessor="vault_oidc_accessor_id" \
      canonical_id="vault_external_group_id"
   ```

### Optional azure-specific configuration

If a user is a member of more than 200 groups (directly or indirectly), Azure will
send `_claim_names` and `_claim_sources`. For example, returned claims might look like:

```json
{
  "_claim_names": {
    "groups": "src1"
  },
  "_claim_sources": {
    "src1": {
      "endpoint": "https://graph.windows.net...."
    }
  }
}
```

The OIDC auth method role can be configured to include the user ID in the endpoint URL,
which will be used by Vault to retrieve the groups for the user. Additional API permissions
must be added to the Azure app in order to request the additional groups from the Microsoft
Graph API.

To set the proper permissions on the Azure app:

1. Locate the application under "App Registrations" in Azure
1. Navigate to the "API Permissions" page for the application
1. Add a permission
1. Select "Microsoft Graph"
1. Select "Delegated permissions"
1. Add the [User.Read](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/graph/permissions-reference#delegated-permissions-93) permission
1. Check the "Grant admin consent for Default Directory" checkbox
1. Configure the OIDC auth method in Vault by setting `"provider_config"` to Azure.
   ```shell
   vault write auth/oidc/config -<<"EOH"
   {
     "oidc_client_id": "your_client_id",
     "oidc_client_secret": "your_client_secret",
     "default_role": "your_default_role",
     "oidc_discovery_url": "https://login.microsoftonline.com/tenant_id/v2.0",
     "provider_config": {
        "provider": "azure"
     }
   }
   EOH
   ```

1. Add `"profile"` to `oidc_scopes` so the user's ID comes back on the JWT.
   ```shell
   vault write auth/oidc/role/your_default_role \
    user_claim="sub" \
    allowed_redirect_uris="http://localhost:8250/oidc/callback,https://online_version_hostname:port_number/ui/vault/auth/oidc/oidc/callback"  \
    groups_claim="groups" \
    oidc_scopes="profile" \
    policies="default"
   ```

Commit message:

Update Azure AD OIDC provider documentation
Added instructions for configuring groups claim and API permissions in Azure AD.

content/vault/v1.21.x/content/docs/auth/jwt/oidc-providers/azuread.mdx, after:

---
layout: docs
page_title: Use Azure AD for OIDC
description: >-
  Configure Vault to use Azure Active Directory (AD) as an OIDC provider.
---

# Use Azure AD for OIDC authentication

~> **Note:** Azure Active Directory Applications that have custom signing keys as a result of using
the [claims-mapping](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/active-directory/develop/active-directory-claims-mapping)
feature are currently not supported for OIDC authentication.

Reference: [Azure Active Directory v2.0 and the OpenID Connect protocol](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/active-directory/develop/v2-protocols-oidc)

1. Choose your Azure tenant.

1. Go to **Azure Active Directory** and
   [register an application](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/active-directory/develop/quickstart-register-app)
   for Vault.

1. Add Redirect URIs with the "Web" type. You may include two redirect URIs,
   one for CLI access another one for Vault UI access.

    - `http://localhost:8250/oidc/callback`
    - `https://hostname:port_number/ui/vault/auth/oidc/oidc/callback`

1. Record the "Application (client) ID" as you will need it as the `oidc_client_id`.

1. Under **Endpoints**, copy the OpenID Connect metadata document URL, omitting the `/well-known...` portion.

   - The endpoint URL (`oidc_discovery_url`) will look like: https://login.microsoftonline.com/tenant-guid-dead-beef-aaaa-aaaa/v2.0

1. Under **Certificates & secrets**,
   [add a client secret](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/active-directory/develop/quickstart-register-app#add-a-client-secret)
   Record the secret's value as you will need it as the `oidc_client_secret` for Vault.

1. Under **Token configurations**, add a groups claim. For "Customize token properties by type" in the claim, ensure at least **ID** is checked.

1. Under **API permissions**, ensure that there are permissions to read groups and users. It is depending on how AD is set up.

### Connect AD group with Vault external group

Reference: [Azure Active Directory with OIDC Auth Method and External Groups](/vault/tutorials/auth-methods/oidc-auth-azure)

To connect the AD group with a [Vault external groups](/vault/docs/secrets/identity#external-vs-internal-groups),
you will need
[Azure AD v2.0 endpoints](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-gb/azure/active-directory/develop/azure-ad-endpoint-comparison).
You should set up a [Vault policy](/vault/tutorials/policies/policies) for the Azure AD group to use.

1. Go to **Azure Active Directory** and choose your Vault application.

1. Go to **Token configuration** and **Add groups claim**. Select "All" or "SecurityGroup" based on
   [which groups for a user](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/active-directory/hybrid/how-to-connect-fed-group-claims)
   you want returned in the claim.

1. In Vault, enable the OIDC auth method.

1. Configure the OIDC auth method with the `oidc_client_id` (application ID), `oidc_client_secret`
   (client secret), and `oidc_discovery_url` (endpoint URL) you recorded from Azure.
   ```shell
   vault write auth/oidc/config \
      oidc_client_id="your_client_id" \
      oidc_client_secret="your_client_secret" \
      default_role="your_default_role" \
      oidc_discovery_url="https://login.microsoftonline.com/tenant_id/v2.0"
   ```

1. Configure the [OIDC Role](/vault/api-docs/auth/jwt#create-role) with the following:

   - `user_claim` should be `"sub"` or `"oid"` following the
   [recommendation](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/active-directory/develop/id-token-claims-reference#use-claims-to-reliably-identify-a-user)
  from Azure.
   - `allowed_redirect_uris` should be the two redirect URIs for Vault CLI and UI access.
   - `groups_claim` should be set to `"groups"`.
   - `oidc_scopes` should be set to `"https://graph.microsoft.com/.default profile"`.
   
   ```shell
   vault write auth/oidc/role/your_default_role \
      user_claim="sub" \
      allowed_redirect_uris="http://localhost:8250/oidc/callback,https://online_version_hostname:port_number/ui/vault/auth/oidc/oidc/callback"  \
      groups_claim="groups" \
      oidc_scopes="https://graph.microsoft.com/.default profile" \
      policies=default
   ```

1. In Vault, create the [external group](/vault/api-docs/secret/identity/group).
   Record the group ID as you will need it for the group alias.

1. From Vault, retrieve the [OIDC accessor ID](/vault/api-docs/system/auth#list-auth-methods)
   from the OIDC auth method as you will need it for the group alias's `mount_accessor`.

1. Go to the Azure AD Group you want to attach to Vault's external group. Record the `objectId`
   as you will need it as the group alias name in Vault.

1. In Vault, create a [group alias](/vault/api-docs/secret/identity/group-alias)
   for the external group and set the `objectId` as the group alias name.
   ```shell
   vault write identity/group-alias \
      name="your_ad_group_object_id" \
      mount_accessor="vault_oidc_accessor_id" \
      canonical_id="vault_external_group_id"
   ```

### Optional azure-specific configuration

If a user is a member of more than 200 groups (directly or indirectly), Azure will
send `_claim_names` and `_claim_sources`. For example, returned claims might look like:

```json
{
  "_claim_names": {
    "groups": "src1"
  },
  "_claim_sources": {
    "src1": {
      "endpoint": "https://graph.windows.net...."
    }
  }
}
```

The OIDC auth method role can be configured to include the user ID in the endpoint URL,
which will be used by Vault to retrieve the groups for the user. Additional API permissions
must be added to the Azure app in order to request the additional groups from the Microsoft
Graph API.

To set the proper permissions on the Azure app:

1. Locate the application under "App Registrations" in Azure
1. Navigate to the "API Permissions" page for the application
1. Add a permission
1. Select "Microsoft Graph"
1. Select "Delegated permissions"
1. Add the [User.Read](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/graph/permissions-reference#delegated-permissions-93) permission
1. Check the "Grant admin consent for Default Directory" checkbox
1. Configure the OIDC auth method in Vault by setting `"provider_config"` to Azure.
   ```shell
   vault write auth/oidc/config -<<"EOH"
   {
     "oidc_client_id": "your_client_id",
     "oidc_client_secret": "your_client_secret",
     "default_role": "your_default_role",
     "oidc_discovery_url": "https://login.microsoftonline.com/tenant_id/v2.0",
     "provider_config": {
        "provider": "azure"
     }
   }
   EOH
   ```

1. Add `"profile"` to `oidc_scopes` so the user's ID comes back on the JWT.
   ```shell
   vault write auth/oidc/role/your_default_role \
    user_claim="sub" \
    allowed_redirect_uris="http://localhost:8250/oidc/callback,https://online_version_hostname:port_number/ui/vault/auth/oidc/oidc/callback"  \
    groups_claim="groups" \
    oidc_scopes="profile" \
    policies="default"
   ```
