content/sentinel/v0.25.x/content/sentinel/docs/language/loops.mdx, before:

---
page_title: Sentinel Language - Loops
sidebar_current: docs-language-loops
description: >-
  Loop statements allow you to execute a body of code for each element in a
  collection or for some fixed number of times.
layout: docs
---

# Language: Loops

Loop statements allow you to execute a body of code for each element in
a collection or for some fixed number of times.

Loop statements may only appear outside of
[rule expressions](/sentinel/language/rules), such as in
[functions](/sentinel/language/functions) or in the global scope
of a policy. This is because rules are only allowed to contain a single
boolean expression.

## For Statements

`for` statements allow repeated execution of a block for each
element in a collection.

Example:

```sentinel
// A basic sum
count = 0
for [1, 2, 3] as num {
	count += num
}
```

The syntax is `for COLLECTION as value`. This will iterate over the
collection, assigning each element to `value`. In the example above,
each element is assigned to `num`. The body is executed for each element.
In the example above, the body adds `num` to the `count` variable. This
creates a basic sum of all values in the collection.

For a map, the assigned element is the key in the map. In the example
below, `name` would be assigned map keys.

```sentinel
list = []
for { "a": 1, "b": 2 } as name {
	append(list, name)
}

print(list) // ["a" "b"]
```

An alternate syntax is `for COLLECTION as key, value`. This will assign
both the key and value to a variable. For a list, the key is the element
index. For a map, it is the key and value is assigned the element value.
Example:

```sentinel
count = 0
for { "a": 1, "b": 2 } as name, num {
	count += num
}

print(count) // 3
```

## Scoping

The body of a `for` statement creates a new
[scope](/sentinel/language/scope). If a variable is assigned within
the body of a for statement that isn't assigned in a parent scope,
that variable will only exist for the duration of the body execution.

Example:

```sentinel
for list as value {
	a = 42
}

print(a) // undefined
```

```sentinel
a = 18
for list as value {
	a = 42
}

print(a) // 18
```

Commit message:

Fix scope example in Sentinel for loops

content/sentinel/v0.25.x/content/sentinel/docs/language/loops.mdx, after:

---
page_title: Sentinel Language - Loops
sidebar_current: docs-language-loops
description: >-
  Loop statements allow you to execute a body of code for each element in a
  collection or for some fixed number of times.
layout: docs
---

# Language: Loops

Loop statements allow you to execute a body of code for each element in
a collection or for some fixed number of times.

Loop statements may only appear outside of
[rule expressions](/sentinel/language/rules), such as in
[functions](/sentinel/language/functions) or in the global scope
of a policy. This is because rules are only allowed to contain a single
boolean expression.

## For Statements

`for` statements allow repeated execution of a block for each
element in a collection.

Example:

```sentinel
// A basic sum
count = 0
for [1, 2, 3] as num {
	count += num
}
```

The syntax is `for COLLECTION as value`. This will iterate over the
collection, assigning each element to `value`. In the example above,
each element is assigned to `num`. The body is executed for each element.
In the example above, the body adds `num` to the `count` variable. This
creates a basic sum of all values in the collection.

For a map, the assigned element is the key in the map. In the example
below, `name` would be assigned map keys.

```sentinel
list = []
for { "a": 1, "b": 2 } as name {
	append(list, name)
}

print(list) // ["a" "b"]
```

An alternate syntax is `for COLLECTION as key, value`. This will assign
both the key and value to a variable. For a list, the key is the element
index. For a map, it is the key and value is assigned the element value.
Example:

```sentinel
count = 0
for { "a": 1, "b": 2 } as name, num {
	count += num
}

print(count) // 3
```

## Scoping

The body of a `for` statement creates a new
[scope](/sentinel/language/scope). If a variable is assigned within
the body of a for statement that isn't assigned in a parent scope,
that variable will only exist for the duration of the body execution.
If the variable exists in the parent scope, assigning the variable a
value in the body of a `for` statement updates it in the parent
scope.

Example:

```sentinel
for list as value {
	a = 42
}

print(a) // undefined
```

```sentinel
a = 18
for list as value {
	a = 42
}

print(a) // 42
```
