content/terraform-enterprise/1.0.x/docs/enterprise/deploy/reference/cli.mdx, before:

---
page_title: Terraform Enterprise admin CLI reference
description: >-
 Learn how to use `tfectl` subcommands to manage your Terraform Enterprise deployment. 
---

# Terraform Enterprise admin CLI reference

This topic provides reference information about `tfectl` commands that enable you to manage and administrate your Terraform Enterprise deployment.

## Introduction

Terraform Enterprise includes a command line interface that enable you to change its configuration, stop the application safely, and produce support bundles. You must have access into the Docker container or Kubernetes pod to run these commands. For instructions on connecting to the command line, refer to [Access the Terraform Enterprise command line](/terraform/enterprise/deploy/manage/access-cli).

## `tfectl` command

The `tfectl` command is the root of the interface. It exposes a number of commands to perform different operations.

Most of the commands run directly on the node where Terraform Enterprise executes them. Some commands support a `--node` flag that you can use to specify which node to run a command on. The value of `--node` depends on the runtime environment of the Terraform Enterprise installation i.e:
- Container ID (Docker)
- Pod Name (Kubernetes)
- Hostname

<Note title="Multi node commands">
Multi node commands are only relevant and possible if you are running Terraform Enterprise on Kubernetes, or on another deployment option using the 'active-active' operational mode.
</Note>

## Gracefully stop work on a node

This command stops a terraform-enterprise node from executing new plans and applies. It allows the current work to complete before safely stopping the node from picking up any new tasks, which lets you safely stop the application.

Drain a single node.

```shell-session
$ tfectl node drain --node NODE_NAME
```

If you do not provide the `--node` flag, the command will drain the node you run it on.

```shell-session
$ tfectl node drain
```

Use the `--all` flag to drain all the nodes.

```shell-session
$ tfectl node drain --all
```

Restart the application to resume processing work after draining all the nodes.

## Support bundle

The `support bundle` command generates support bundle on a Terraform Enterprise installation.

Generate a support bundle on a specific node.

```shell-session
$ tfectl support bundle --node NODE_NAME
```

If you do not provide the `--node` flag, Terraform Enterprise will by default generate the support bundle on the same node where you run the command.

```shell-session
$ tfectl support bundle
```

Use the `--all` flag to generate the support bundle on all the nodes.

```shell-session
$ tfectl support bundle --all
```

For mounted disk installations, Terraform Enterprise will generate support bundles in `/run/terraform-enterprise/support-bundles`. Downloading this file makes it immediately available, but it should be disabled once the file has been downloaded.

For External Services, Active/Active and Kubernetes installations, Terraform Enterprise will upload the support bundles to the same object store bucket where Terraform state files are stored.
Each specific run of the admin `support bundle` command will upload the bundle to a directory with the same JobID, which is a timestamp in
[RFC3339](https://datatracker.ietf.org/doc/html/rfc3339) format (`bucket/node/timestamp`).

If you are sending a support bundle to HashiCorp Support, package and send all associated bundles to ensure that we have all the necessary information.

Example upload structure:

```shell-session
support-bundles
└── 2020-11-10T02:03:05Z
    ├── 10.0.0.5
    │   └── 10.0.0.5-support-bundle-timestamp.tar.gz
    └── 10.0.0.6
        └── 10.0.0.6-support-bundle-timestamp.tar.gz
```

## Enable or disable support bundle downloads

The `support bundle-download` command enables the administrator of a mounted disk installation to access support bundles via https in the Terraform Enterprise node.

To enable downloads, use the `--enable` flag.

```shell-session
$ tfectl support bundle-download --enable
```

By enabling this feature, you will be able to download support bundles from `https://${TFE_HOSTNAME}/_support-bundles/${timestamp}/${filename}`. The filename follows the structure of `${node_hostname}-support-bundle-${timestamp}.tar.gz`.

Once you have finished downloading support bundles, it is recommended to disable this feature using the following command:

```shell-session
$ tfectl support bundle-download --disable
```

If the command is executed in a Terraform Enterprise installation that is not running on a mounted disk, it will have no effect and perform no action.

## Connect to the internal Rails Console

At times, it may become necessary to modify the internal state of the Terraform Enterprise application. An example is when you have lost credentials
for all your admin accounts and need to manually set an existing user as an administrator.

This operation is very **dangerous**, and we strongly advise against using this command without the guidance of HashiCorp support.
Once you have a concrete action plan on what needs to be changed via the Rails console, execute:

```shell-session
$ tfectl support console
```

This will prompt you for confirmation. Only the word `yes` is a valid response to proceed.

## Review HashiCorp license status

This command displays the status of the license installed on your Terraform Enterprise application.

```shell-session
$ tfectl app license
```

## Retrieve the initial admin user creation token

To create the first admin user in your Terraform Enterprise installation, you will need the **Initial Admin Creation Token** or **IACT**.
You can retrieve this from any Terraform Enterprise node using:

```shell-session
$ tfectl admin token
```

This command should return the token value. You can also retrieve the REST resource that will allow you to create your
initial admin user with the IACT token appended at the end via the flag:

```shell-session
$ tfectl admin token --url
```

This will provide the URL formatted to be used with `curl` or `wget`, and it only supports `POST` operations.

## Generate product usage report

The `admin usage-report` command generates a product usage report in JSON format that you can view and download.

```shell-session
$ tfectl admin usage-report
```

When in `external` and `active-active` mode and on Kubernetes, Terraform Enterprise uploads the product usage report to the same object store bucket where Terraform state files are stored.

Each specific run of the admin `usage-report` command generates the product usage report in a new JSON file.

To send product usage reports to HashiCorp, visit the [**Licensing utilization reporting** page](https://portal.cloud.hashicorp.com/license-utilization/reports/create) and use the upload form.

## Manage admin API tokens

Terraform Enterprise provides commands to manage authentication tokens for the Admin API, which allows programmatic access to administrative functions.

### Generate an admin API token

To create a new admin API token, use the `admin api-token generate` command with a required description that helps identify the token's purpose or owner:

```shell-session
$ tfectl admin api-token generate --description "Token description"
```

By default, tokens expire after 720 hours (30 days). You can specify a custom time-to-live (TTL) in hours using the `--ttl` flag:

```shell-session
$ tfectl admin api-token generate --description "Token description" --ttl 2000
```

### List admin API tokens

To list all existing admin API tokens along with their metadata (excluding the actual token value), use:

```shell-session
$ tfectl admin api-token list
```

This command displays the token ID, creation date, expiration date, last used date, and description for each token. The output is ordered by creation date.

### Revoke an admin API token

To revoke an admin API token, use the `admin api-token revoke` command with the token ID (obtained from the `list` command):

```shell-session
$ tfectl admin api-token revoke --id "1"
```

## List all Terraform Enterprise installation nodes

To get a list of valid node values, use the following command:

```shell-session
$ tfectl node list
```

This will return a list of all active nodes in the installation that are sharing the same database connection.

## View application health

Terraform Enterprise runs several integral systems for the application's overall health.
To view the health of these systems, run the following command:

```shell-session
$ tfectl app status
```

You can also view the health on other nodes in the Terraform Enterprise installation. To see the status of a specific node, use the `--node` flag, e.g.:


```shell-session
$ tfectl app status --node NODE_NAME
```

For a health check on every node in the Terraform Enterprise installation, you could run:

```shell-session
$ tfectl app status --all
```

## View application configuration

Reviewing the actual values used by the Terraform Enterprise application during execution is a useful method to verify
correct configuration. To view it, simply run:

```shell-session
$ tfectl app config
```

This command will print the application's configuration in JSON format, with sensitive values redacted. To see
the configuration without redaction, use:

```shell-session
$ tfectl app config --unredacted
```

However, some values, like the `TLS CA Bundle Data`, are truncated for readability. For the full configuration
without truncation, use:

```shell-session
$ tfectl app config --full
```

You can save the configuration to a file with:

```shell-session
$ tfectl app config --out /path/to/config.json
```

To get the node's configuration from a specific node:

```shell-session
$ tfectl app config --node NODE_NAME
```

To read the configuration from all the nodes in the Terraform Enterprise installation, you can use:

```shell-session
$ tfectl app config --all
```

To convert your Terraform Enterprise configuration into a suitable Docker Compose file format, use the following command:

```shell-session
$ tfectl app config --format docker
```
Use this command when migrating from a Replicated installation to another deployment option.

## Change encryption password

The `TFE_ENCRYPTION_PASSWORD` is used as a key for envelope encryption. This password is necessary to start and run Terraform Enterprise. The blob data cannot be decrypted without it. To change it, use:

```shell-session
$ tfectl app rotate-encryption-password
```

You'll be prompted for confirmation, where 'yes' is the only acceptable value. Then, you'll need to provide your current
and new passwords:

```shell-session
$ tfectl app rotate-encryption-password --current CURRENT_PASSWORD --new NEW_PASSWORD
```

**WARNING**: After changing the encryption password, restart your Terraform Enterprise nodes with the new password as the value of the `TFE_ENCRYPTION_PASSWORD` environment variable.
Ensure no one is using the system to avoid corrupting the application's state.

Back up the old password in case you need to restore the application. Otherwise, data in the backup can't be accessed.

## Trigger startup checks

Terraform Enterprise runs validations to ensure proper application configuration. Use the following commands to manually trigger the validations:

```shell-session
$ tfectl app startup-check
```

## View ongoing database migrations

This command retrieves the current version of the ongoing database migrations:

```shell-session
$ tfectl db last-applied-migration
```

## View Terraform Enterprise application version

This command retrieves the currently running version of Terraform Enterprise:

```shell-session
$ tfectl app version
```

## Mounted disk commands

<Note title="Mounted disk commands">
  These commands are not relevant if you manage your own database instance or run Terraform Enterprise with an external database.
</Note>

When using `TFE_OPERATIONAL_MODE: disk`, Terraform Enterprise runs its Postgres instance managed through the container.
Admin CLI provides commands for common operations.

### Create a database backup

To create backups of the internal database instance, use the following command:

```shell-session
$ tfectl db backup
```

This command will generate the backup in the directory passed via the environment variable `TFE_DISK_PATH`, default `/var/lib/terraform-enterprise`.
The backup filename will be created in the format `TIMESTAMP_hashicorp.db`. `

You can specify the backup's destination via the `--out` flag, e.g.

```shell-session
$ tfectl db backup --out /path/to/backup.db
```

### Recreate database indices

Rebuild Postgres database indices using:

```shell-session
$ tfectl db reindex
```

### Restore database from a backup

* The execution of this command will **momentarily shut down your Terraform Enterprise instance**. Please make sure that no work
is being executed, and no one is using the instance before running this command. After the restore takes place, Atlas
will come back online.

* This operation is **irreversible**, once a database backup has been loaded, all data created between the time of the
backup and the date of restoration **will be lost**.

To restore a database from a backup file, run:

```shell-session
$ tfectl db restore --file /path/to/backup.db
```

Confirmation is needed, with only `yes` as a valid response.

Commit message:

Update CLI documentation to reflect changes from Admin API to System API tokens

content/terraform-enterprise/1.0.x/docs/enterprise/deploy/reference/cli.mdx, after:

---
page_title: Terraform Enterprise admin CLI reference
description: >-
 Learn how to use `tfectl` subcommands to manage your Terraform Enterprise deployment. 
---

# Terraform Enterprise admin CLI reference

This topic provides reference information about `tfectl` commands that enable you to manage and administrate your Terraform Enterprise deployment.

## Introduction

Terraform Enterprise includes a command line interface that enable you to change its configuration, stop the application safely, and produce support bundles. You must have access into the Docker container or Kubernetes pod to run these commands. For instructions on connecting to the command line, refer to [Access the Terraform Enterprise command line](/terraform/enterprise/deploy/manage/access-cli).

## `tfectl` command

The `tfectl` command is the root of the interface. It exposes a number of commands to perform different operations.

Most of the commands run directly on the node where Terraform Enterprise executes them. Some commands support a `--node` flag that you can use to specify which node to run a command on. The value of `--node` depends on the runtime environment of the Terraform Enterprise installation i.e:
- Container ID (Docker)
- Pod Name (Kubernetes)
- Hostname

<Note title="Multi node commands">
Multi node commands are only relevant and possible if you are running Terraform Enterprise on Kubernetes, or on another deployment option using the 'active-active' operational mode.
</Note>

## Gracefully stop work on a node

This command stops a terraform-enterprise node from executing new plans and applies. It allows the current work to complete before safely stopping the node from picking up any new tasks, which lets you safely stop the application.

Drain a single node.

```shell-session
$ tfectl node drain --node NODE_NAME
```

If you do not provide the `--node` flag, the command will drain the node you run it on.

```shell-session
$ tfectl node drain
```

Use the `--all` flag to drain all the nodes.

```shell-session
$ tfectl node drain --all
```

Restart the application to resume processing work after draining all the nodes.

## Support bundle

The `support bundle` command generates support bundle on a Terraform Enterprise installation.

Generate a support bundle on a specific node.

```shell-session
$ tfectl support bundle --node NODE_NAME
```

If you do not provide the `--node` flag, Terraform Enterprise will by default generate the support bundle on the same node where you run the command.

```shell-session
$ tfectl support bundle
```

Use the `--all` flag to generate the support bundle on all the nodes.

```shell-session
$ tfectl support bundle --all
```

For mounted disk installations, Terraform Enterprise will generate support bundles in `/run/terraform-enterprise/support-bundles`. Downloading this file makes it immediately available, but it should be disabled once the file has been downloaded.

For External Services, Active/Active and Kubernetes installations, Terraform Enterprise will upload the support bundles to the same object store bucket where Terraform state files are stored.
Each specific run of the admin `support bundle` command will upload the bundle to a directory with the same JobID, which is a timestamp in
[RFC3339](https://datatracker.ietf.org/doc/html/rfc3339) format (`bucket/node/timestamp`).

If you are sending a support bundle to HashiCorp Support, package and send all associated bundles to ensure that we have all the necessary information.

Example upload structure:

```shell-session
support-bundles
└── 2020-11-10T02:03:05Z
    ├── 10.0.0.5
    │   └── 10.0.0.5-support-bundle-timestamp.tar.gz
    └── 10.0.0.6
        └── 10.0.0.6-support-bundle-timestamp.tar.gz
```

## Enable or disable support bundle downloads

The `support bundle-download` command enables the administrator of a mounted disk installation to access support bundles via https in the Terraform Enterprise node.

To enable downloads, use the `--enable` flag.

```shell-session
$ tfectl support bundle-download --enable
```

By enabling this feature, you will be able to download support bundles from `https://${TFE_HOSTNAME}/_support-bundles/${timestamp}/${filename}`. The filename follows the structure of `${node_hostname}-support-bundle-${timestamp}.tar.gz`.

Once you have finished downloading support bundles, it is recommended to disable this feature using the following command:

```shell-session
$ tfectl support bundle-download --disable
```

If the command is executed in a Terraform Enterprise installation that is not running on a mounted disk, it will have no effect and perform no action.

## Connect to the internal Rails Console

At times, it may become necessary to modify the internal state of the Terraform Enterprise application. An example is when you have lost credentials
for all your admin accounts and need to manually set an existing user as an administrator.

This operation is very **dangerous**, and we strongly advise against using this command without the guidance of HashiCorp support.
Once you have a concrete action plan on what needs to be changed via the Rails console, execute:

```shell-session
$ tfectl support console
```

This will prompt you for confirmation. Only the word `yes` is a valid response to proceed.

## Review HashiCorp license status

This command displays the status of the license installed on your Terraform Enterprise application.

```shell-session
$ tfectl app license
```

## Retrieve the initial admin user creation token

To create the first admin user in your Terraform Enterprise installation, you will need the **Initial Admin Creation Token** or **IACT**.
You can retrieve this from any Terraform Enterprise node using:

```shell-session
$ tfectl admin token
```

This command should return the token value. You can also retrieve the REST resource that will allow you to create your
initial admin user with the IACT token appended at the end via the flag:

```shell-session
$ tfectl admin token --url
```

This will provide the URL formatted to be used with `curl` or `wget`, and it only supports `POST` operations.

## Generate product usage report

The `admin usage-report` command generates a product usage report in JSON format that you can view and download.

```shell-session
$ tfectl admin usage-report
```

When in `external` and `active-active` mode and on Kubernetes, Terraform Enterprise uploads the product usage report to the same object store bucket where Terraform state files are stored.

Each specific run of the admin `usage-report` command generates the product usage report in a new JSON file.

To send product usage reports to HashiCorp, visit the [**Licensing utilization reporting** page](https://portal.cloud.hashicorp.com/license-utilization/reports/create) and use the upload form.

## Manage System API tokens

Terraform Enterprise provides commands to manage authentication tokens for the System API, which allows programmatic access to administrative functions.
Note that this is not equivalent to the Admin API which manages organization and workspace resources. The System API interacts with the TFE deployment and not the TFE application.

### Generate a System API token

To create a new System API token, use the `admin api-token generate` command with a required description that helps identify the token's purpose or owner:

```shell-session
$ tfectl admin api-token generate --description "Token description"
```

By default, tokens expire after 720 hours (30 days). You can specify a custom time-to-live (TTL) in hours using the `--ttl` flag:

```shell-session
$ tfectl admin api-token generate --description "Token description" --ttl 2000
```

### List System API tokens

To list all existing System API tokens along with their metadata (excluding the actual token value), use:

```shell-session
$ tfectl admin api-token list
```

This command displays the token ID, creation date, expiration date, last used date, and description for each token. The output is ordered by creation date.

### Revoke a System API token

To revoke an admin API token, use the `admin api-token revoke` command with the token ID (obtained from the `list` command):

```shell-session
$ tfectl admin api-token revoke --id "1"
```

## List all Terraform Enterprise installation nodes

To get a list of valid node values, use the following command:

```shell-session
$ tfectl node list
```

This will return a list of all active nodes in the installation that are sharing the same database connection.

## View application health

Terraform Enterprise runs several integral systems for the application's overall health.
To view the health of these systems, run the following command:

```shell-session
$ tfectl app status
```

You can also view the health on other nodes in the Terraform Enterprise installation. To see the status of a specific node, use the `--node` flag, e.g.:


```shell-session
$ tfectl app status --node NODE_NAME
```

For a health check on every node in the Terraform Enterprise installation, you could run:

```shell-session
$ tfectl app status --all
```

## View application configuration

Reviewing the actual values used by the Terraform Enterprise application during execution is a useful method to verify
correct configuration. To view it, simply run:

```shell-session
$ tfectl app config
```

This command will print the application's configuration in JSON format, with sensitive values redacted. To see
the configuration without redaction, use:

```shell-session
$ tfectl app config --unredacted
```

However, some values, like the `TLS CA Bundle Data`, are truncated for readability. For the full configuration
without truncation, use:

```shell-session
$ tfectl app config --full
```

You can save the configuration to a file with:

```shell-session
$ tfectl app config --out /path/to/config.json
```

To get the node's configuration from a specific node:

```shell-session
$ tfectl app config --node NODE_NAME
```

To read the configuration from all the nodes in the Terraform Enterprise installation, you can use:

```shell-session
$ tfectl app config --all
```

To convert your Terraform Enterprise configuration into a suitable Docker Compose file format, use the following command:

```shell-session
$ tfectl app config --format docker
```
Use this command when migrating from a Replicated installation to another deployment option.

## Change encryption password

The `TFE_ENCRYPTION_PASSWORD` is used as a key for envelope encryption. This password is necessary to start and run Terraform Enterprise. The blob data cannot be decrypted without it. To change it, use:

```shell-session
$ tfectl app rotate-encryption-password
```

You'll be prompted for confirmation, where 'yes' is the only acceptable value. Then, you'll need to provide your current
and new passwords:

```shell-session
$ tfectl app rotate-encryption-password --current CURRENT_PASSWORD --new NEW_PASSWORD
```

**WARNING**: After changing the encryption password, restart your Terraform Enterprise nodes with the new password as the value of the `TFE_ENCRYPTION_PASSWORD` environment variable.
Ensure no one is using the system to avoid corrupting the application's state.

Back up the old password in case you need to restore the application. Otherwise, data in the backup can't be accessed.

## Trigger startup checks

Terraform Enterprise runs validations to ensure proper application configuration. Use the following commands to manually trigger the validations:

```shell-session
$ tfectl app startup-check
```

## View ongoing database migrations

This command retrieves the current version of the ongoing database migrations:

```shell-session
$ tfectl db last-applied-migration
```

## View Terraform Enterprise application version

This command retrieves the currently running version of Terraform Enterprise:

```shell-session
$ tfectl app version
```

## Mounted disk commands

<Note title="Mounted disk commands">
  These commands are not relevant if you manage your own database instance or run Terraform Enterprise with an external database.
</Note>

When using `TFE_OPERATIONAL_MODE: disk`, Terraform Enterprise runs its Postgres instance managed through the container.
Admin CLI provides commands for common operations.

### Create a database backup

To create backups of the internal database instance, use the following command:

```shell-session
$ tfectl db backup
```

This command will generate the backup in the directory passed via the environment variable `TFE_DISK_PATH`, default `/var/lib/terraform-enterprise`.
The backup filename will be created in the format `TIMESTAMP_hashicorp.db`. `

You can specify the backup's destination via the `--out` flag, e.g.

```shell-session
$ tfectl db backup --out /path/to/backup.db
```

### Recreate database indices

Rebuild Postgres database indices using:

```shell-session
$ tfectl db reindex
```

### Restore database from a backup

* The execution of this command will **momentarily shut down your Terraform Enterprise instance**. Please make sure that no work
is being executed, and no one is using the instance before running this command. After the restore takes place, Atlas
will come back online.

* This operation is **irreversible**, once a database backup has been loaded, all data created between the time of the
backup and the date of restoration **will be lost**.

To restore a database from a backup file, run:

```shell-session
$ tfectl db restore --file /path/to/backup.db
```

Confirmation is needed, with only `yes` as a valid response.
