content/terraform/v1.13.x/docs/cli/commands/stacks/index.mdx, before:

---
page_title: terraform stacks command
description: The terraform stacks command manages Terraform Stacks configurations and deployments.
---

# `terraform stacks` reference

Use `terraform stacks` commands to manage Terraform Stack configurations, deployments, and the lifecycle of a Stack.

## Description

The `terraform stacks` command lets you manage Terraform Stacks. Use the following commands to initialize configurations, validate Stack definitions, create and manage Stacks, and handle deployment operations.

## Commands

- `init` - Initialize the Stack and prepare the configuration directory for further commands.
- `validate` - Checks whether the local component and deployment configurations are valid.
- `create` - Create a Stack in HCP Terraform.
- `list` - List Stacks for a given organization or project.
- `version` - Show the current Stacks plugin version.
- `providers-lock` - Write out dependency locks for the providers your Stack configures.
- `fmt` - Reformat your component configuration and deployment configuration to a canonical format.

## Subcommands

- `deployment-run` - Manage deployment runs for a Stack deployment.
- `deployment-group` - Manage deployment groups.
- `configuration` - Manage Stack configuration versions.

## Global flags

Refer to [Global flags reference](/terraform/cli/commands/stacks/global-flags) for information about flags you can use with all commands.

Commit message:

Add a callout for the env var to set a custom hostname target in the stacks subcommand

content/terraform/v1.13.x/docs/cli/commands/stacks/index.mdx, after:

---
page_title: terraform stacks command
description: The terraform stacks command manages Terraform Stacks configurations and deployments.
---

# `terraform stacks` reference

Use `terraform stacks` commands to manage Terraform Stack configurations, deployments, and the lifecycle of a Stack.

## Description

The `terraform stacks` command lets you manage Terraform Stacks. Use the following commands to initialize configurations, validate Stack definitions, create and manage Stacks, and handle deployment operations.

~> **Note:** Use the `TF_STACKS_HOSTNAME` environment variable to specify a custom hostname for Terraform Enterprise (TFE) instances.

## Commands

- `init` - Initialize the Stack and prepare the configuration directory for further commands.
- `validate` - Checks whether the local component and deployment configurations are valid.
- `create` - Create a Stack in HCP Terraform.
- `list` - List Stacks for a given organization or project.
- `version` - Show the current Stacks plugin version.
- `providers-lock` - Write out dependency locks for the providers your Stack configures.
- `fmt` - Reformat your component configuration and deployment configuration to a canonical format.

## Subcommands

- `deployment-run` - Manage deployment runs for a Stack deployment.
- `deployment-group` - Manage deployment groups.
- `configuration` - Manage Stack configuration versions.

## Global flags

Refer to [Global flags reference](/terraform/cli/commands/stacks/global-flags) for information about flags you can use with all commands.
