content/terraform-enterprise/v202310-1/docs/enterprise/flexible-deployments/install/kubernetes/install.mdx, before:

---
page_title: Installation on Kubernetes - Flexible Deployment Options - Terraform Enterprise
description: >-
  Learn how to install Terraform Enterprise with Flexible Deployment Options on Kubernetes using Helm.
---

# Install Terraform Enterprise with Helm

We recommend that developers have a _deep_ understanding of Kubernetes before deploying Terraform Enterprise to a production Kubernetes environment. 

Kubernetes deployments have different operational and observability considerations than traditional deployments, and external service dependencies should be deployed outside the cluster and scale reliably to accommodate Terraform Enterprise workloads. Refer to [Architectures](/terraform/enterprise/replicated/architecture/reference-architecture) for other deployment options.


-> **Note:** For exisiting Terraform Enterprise users with [Replicated deployments](/terraform/enterprise/replicated), refer to [Migrating to Flexible Deployment Options](/terraform/enterprise/replicated/replicated-migration).

## 1. Requirements

  1. Before installing, ensure you meet the [shared requirements](/terraform/enterprise/flexible-deployments/install/requirements/) for all flexible deployment methods and the [requirements for Kubernetes deployments](/terraform/enterprise/flexible-deployments/install/kubernetes/requirements).

## 2. Pull image

  1. Log in to the Terraform Enterprise container image registry.

    ```shell-session
    $ cat <PATH_TO_HASHICORP_LICENSE_FILE> |  docker login --username terraform images.releases.hashicorp.com --password-stdin
    ```

  1. Pull the Terraform Enterprise image from the registry.

  ```shell-session
  $ docker pull images.releases.hashicorp.com/hashicorp/terraform-enterprise:<vYYYYMM-#>
  ```

  1. Create a custom namespace.

  ```shell-session
  $ kubectl create namespace <TFE_NAMESPACE>
  ```

  1. Create an image pull secret in `<TFE_NAMESPACE>` to fetch the `terraform-enterprise` container from the `<DOCKER_REGISTRY_URL>`. This URL can be `images.releases.hashicorp.com`, or your internal container registry. If you are using `images.releases.hashicorp.com`, use `terraform` as the `<DOCKER_REGISTRY_USERNAME>` parameter in the command below, together with `--docker-password=$(cat /path/to/terraform.hclic)`

  ```shell-session
  $ kubectl create secret docker-registry terraform-enterprise --docker-server=<DOCKER_REGISTRY_URL> --docker-username=<DOCKER_REGISTRY_USERNAME> --docker-password=<DOCKER_REGISTRY_PASSWORD>  -n <TFE_NAMESPACE>
  ```

  1. Add the Hashicorp helm registry:

  ```shell-session
  $ helm repo add hashicorp https://helm.releases.hashicorp.com
  ```

  1. Render the `terraform-enterprise` chart with your custom [values file](https://helm.sh/docs/chart_template_guide/values_files/) `<OVERRIDES_FILE>` (such as `tmp/overrides.yaml`).

  ```shell-session
  $ helm template terraform-enterprise hashicorp/terraform-enterprise –n <TFE_NAMESPACE> --values <OVERRIDES_FILE>
  ```

## 3. Install the application

  1. Install `terraform-enterprise`, this step can take several minutes.

    ```shell-session
    $ helm install terraform-enterprise hashicorp/terraform-enterprise –n <TFE_NAMESPACE> --values <OVERRIDES_FILE>
    ```

  1. Inspect `terraform-enterprise` pods to verify their successful start.

  ```shell-session
  $ kubectl get pods -n <TFE_NAMESPACE>             
  ```

  If the Terraform Enterprise pod(s) fail to start, refer to [Kubernetes Troubleshooting](/terraform/enterprise/flexible-deployments/troubleshooting#kubernetes).

  1. By default, Terraform Enterprice installs a load balancer service. Retrieve the external IP address of this service.

  ```shell-session
  $ kubectl get services -n <TFE_NAMESPACE>
  ```

  Other configurations, such as ingress controllers, are discussed in [Optional configuration](/terraform/enterprise/flexible-deployments/install/kubernetes/install#custom-ingress).
  
  1. Set up a DNS record that points to your external IP address to enable routing to your `<TFE_HOSTNAME>`. A DNS address is required to communicate with Terraform Enterprise, and it is managed outside of Kubernetes and the Terraform Enterprise helm chart or application. 

  1. Validate the readiness of the Terraform Enterprise application by querying the [health check endpoint](/terraform/enterprise/flexible-deployments/troubleshooting#health-check).

  ```shell-session
  $ curl https://tfe.test.hashicorp.com/_health_check
  ```

## 4. Create initial admin user

[Provision your first administrative user](/terraform/enterprise/flexible-deployments/install/initial-admin-user) and start using Terraform Enterprise.

## 5. Optional configuration

### Custom ingress
The [Terraform Enterprise Helm Chart](https://github.com/hashicorp/terraform-enterprise-helm) supports an optional ingress resource with the Ingress controller. 
To enable this, add values for the ingress section in the custom [values file](https://helm.sh/docs/chart_template_guide/values_files/) (e.g., `/tmp/overrides.yaml`). 
This [example values file](https://github.com/hashicorp/terraform-enterprise-helm/blob/main/docs/example/terraform-enterprise-prereqs/values.yaml#L46C9-L46C9) demo how to enable ingress configuration.  

To setup with Nginx:
1. Install the [nginx controller](https://kubernetes.github.io/ingress-nginx/deploy/) in a different namespace.
1. Deploy Terraform Enterprise with Ingress configured in your values file.
1. Get the address from the ingress resource like so:

```shell-session
$ kubectl get ingress
NAME                   CLASS   HOSTS        ADDRESS         PORTS     AGE
terraform-enterprise   nginx   <hostname>    <ip>           80, 443   60s
```

Commit message:

Guide users to the releases page and explicitly state that "latest" is not a valid tag in this case.

content/terraform-enterprise/v202310-1/docs/enterprise/flexible-deployments/install/kubernetes/install.mdx, after:

---
page_title: Installation on Kubernetes - Flexible Deployment Options - Terraform Enterprise
description: >-
  Learn how to install Terraform Enterprise with Flexible Deployment Options on Kubernetes using Helm.
---

# Install Terraform Enterprise with Helm

We recommend that developers have a _deep_ understanding of Kubernetes before deploying Terraform Enterprise to a production Kubernetes environment. 

Kubernetes deployments have different operational and observability considerations than traditional deployments, and external service dependencies should be deployed outside the cluster and scale reliably to accommodate Terraform Enterprise workloads. Refer to [Architectures](/terraform/enterprise/replicated/architecture/reference-architecture) for other deployment options.


-> **Note:** For exisiting Terraform Enterprise users with [Replicated deployments](/terraform/enterprise/replicated), refer to [Migrating to Flexible Deployment Options](/terraform/enterprise/replicated/replicated-migration).

## 1. Requirements

  1. Before installing, ensure you meet the [shared requirements](/terraform/enterprise/flexible-deployments/install/requirements/) for all flexible deployment methods and the [requirements for Kubernetes deployments](/terraform/enterprise/flexible-deployments/install/kubernetes/requirements).

## 2. Pull image

  1. Log in to the Terraform Enterprise container image registry.

    ```shell-session
    $ cat <PATH_TO_HASHICORP_LICENSE_FILE> |  docker login --username terraform images.releases.hashicorp.com --password-stdin
    ```

  1. Pull the Terraform Enterprise image from the registry.  Refer to [Terraform Enterprise Releases](https://developer.hashicorp.com/terraform/enterprise/releases) for a list of versions and replace `<vYYYYMM-#>` with the version you wish to install; `latest` is not a valid tag.  

  ```shell-session
  $ docker pull images.releases.hashicorp.com/hashicorp/terraform-enterprise:<vYYYYMM-#>
  ```

  1. Create a custom namespace.

  ```shell-session
  $ kubectl create namespace <TFE_NAMESPACE>
  ```

  1. Create an image pull secret in `<TFE_NAMESPACE>` to fetch the `terraform-enterprise` container from the `<DOCKER_REGISTRY_URL>`. This URL can be `images.releases.hashicorp.com`, or your internal container registry. If you are using `images.releases.hashicorp.com`, use `terraform` as the `<DOCKER_REGISTRY_USERNAME>` parameter in the command below, together with `--docker-password=$(cat /path/to/terraform.hclic)`

  ```shell-session
  $ kubectl create secret docker-registry terraform-enterprise --docker-server=<DOCKER_REGISTRY_URL> --docker-username=<DOCKER_REGISTRY_USERNAME> --docker-password=<DOCKER_REGISTRY_PASSWORD>  -n <TFE_NAMESPACE>
  ```

  1. Add the Hashicorp helm registry:

  ```shell-session
  $ helm repo add hashicorp https://helm.releases.hashicorp.com
  ```

  1. Render the `terraform-enterprise` chart with your custom [values file](https://helm.sh/docs/chart_template_guide/values_files/) `<OVERRIDES_FILE>` (such as `tmp/overrides.yaml`).

  ```shell-session
  $ helm template terraform-enterprise hashicorp/terraform-enterprise –n <TFE_NAMESPACE> --values <OVERRIDES_FILE>
  ```

## 3. Install the application

  1. Install `terraform-enterprise`, this step can take several minutes.

    ```shell-session
    $ helm install terraform-enterprise hashicorp/terraform-enterprise –n <TFE_NAMESPACE> --values <OVERRIDES_FILE>
    ```

  1. Inspect `terraform-enterprise` pods to verify their successful start.

  ```shell-session
  $ kubectl get pods -n <TFE_NAMESPACE>             
  ```

  If the Terraform Enterprise pod(s) fail to start, refer to [Kubernetes Troubleshooting](/terraform/enterprise/flexible-deployments/troubleshooting#kubernetes).

  1. By default, Terraform Enterprice installs a load balancer service. Retrieve the external IP address of this service.

  ```shell-session
  $ kubectl get services -n <TFE_NAMESPACE>
  ```

  Other configurations, such as ingress controllers, are discussed in [Optional configuration](/terraform/enterprise/flexible-deployments/install/kubernetes/install#custom-ingress).
  
  1. Set up a DNS record that points to your external IP address to enable routing to your `<TFE_HOSTNAME>`. A DNS address is required to communicate with Terraform Enterprise, and it is managed outside of Kubernetes and the Terraform Enterprise helm chart or application. 

  1. Validate the readiness of the Terraform Enterprise application by querying the [health check endpoint](/terraform/enterprise/flexible-deployments/troubleshooting#health-check).

  ```shell-session
  $ curl https://tfe.test.hashicorp.com/_health_check
  ```

## 4. Create initial admin user

[Provision your first administrative user](/terraform/enterprise/flexible-deployments/install/initial-admin-user) and start using Terraform Enterprise.

## 5. Optional configuration

### Custom ingress
The [Terraform Enterprise Helm Chart](https://github.com/hashicorp/terraform-enterprise-helm) supports an optional ingress resource with the Ingress controller. 
To enable this, add values for the ingress section in the custom [values file](https://helm.sh/docs/chart_template_guide/values_files/) (e.g., `/tmp/overrides.yaml`). 
This [example values file](https://github.com/hashicorp/terraform-enterprise-helm/blob/main/docs/example/terraform-enterprise-prereqs/values.yaml#L46C9-L46C9) demo how to enable ingress configuration.  

To setup with Nginx:
1. Install the [nginx controller](https://kubernetes.github.io/ingress-nginx/deploy/) in a different namespace.
1. Deploy Terraform Enterprise with Ingress configured in your values file.
1. Get the address from the ingress resource like so:

```shell-session
$ kubectl get ingress
NAME                   CLASS   HOSTS        ADDRESS         PORTS     AGE
terraform-enterprise   nginx   <hostname>    <ip>           80, 443   60s
```
