content/vault/v2.x (rc)/content/api-docs/system/tools.mdx, before:

---
layout: api
page_title: /sys/tools - HTTP API
description: This is the API documentation for a general set of crypto  tools.
---

# `/sys/tools`

The `/sys/tools` endpoints are a general set of tools.

## Generate random bytes

This endpoint returns high-quality random bytes of the specified length.

| Method | Path                                   |
| :----- | :------------------------------------- |
| `POST` | `/sys/tools/random(/:source)(/:bytes)` |

### Parameters

- `bytes` `(int: 32)` – Specifies the number of bytes to return. This value can
  be specified either in the request body, or as a part of the URL.

- `format` `(string: "base64")` – Specifies the output encoding. Valid options
  are `hex` or `base64`.

- `source` `(string: "platform")` - Specifies the source of the requested bytes.
  `platform`, the default, sources bytes from the platform's entropy source.
  `seal` sources from entropy augmentation (enterprise only).
  `all` mixes bytes from all available sources.

### Sample payload

```json
{
  "format": "hex"
}
```

### Sample request

```shell-session
$ curl \
    --header "X-Vault-Token: ..." \
    --request POST \
    --data @payload.json \
    http://127.0.0.1:8200/v1/sys/tools/random/164
```

### Sample response

```json
{
  "data": {
    "random_bytes": "dGhlIHF1aWNrIGJyb3duIGZveAo="
  }
}
```

## Hash data

This endpoint returns the cryptographic hash of given data using the specified
algorithm.

| Method | Path                           |
| :----- | :----------------------------- |
| `POST` | `/sys/tools/hash(/:algorithm)` |

### Parameters

- `algorithm` `(string: "sha2-256")` – Specifies the hash algorithm to use. This
  can also be specified as part of the URL. Currently-supported algorithms are:

  - `sha2-224`
  - `sha2-256`
  - `sha2-384`
  - `sha2-512`
  - `sha3-224`
  - `sha3-256`
  - `sha3-384`
  - `sha3-512`

- `input` `(string: <required>)` – Specifies the **base64 encoded** input data.

- `format` `(string: "hex")` – Specifies the output encoding. This can be either
  `hex` or `base64`.

### Sample payload

```json
{
  "input": "adba32=="
}
```

### Sample request

```shell-session
$ curl \
    --header "X-Vault-Token: ..." \
    --request POST \
    --data @payload.json \
    http://127.0.0.1:8200/v1/sys/tools/hash/sha2-512
```

### Sample response

```json
{
  "data": {
    "sum": "dGhlIHF1aWNrIGJyb3duIGZveAo="
  }
}
```

Commit message:

Document the new DRBG parameter to sys/tools/random and transit's random

content/vault/v2.x (rc)/content/api-docs/system/tools.mdx, after:

---
layout: api
page_title: /sys/tools - HTTP API
description: This is the API documentation for a general set of crypto  tools.
---

# `/sys/tools`

The `/sys/tools` endpoints are a general set of tools.

## Generate random bytes

This endpoint returns high-quality random bytes of the specified length. Up
to 10MB may be fetched from the platform source or if using the DRBG option.
128KB may be fetched from seal/all sources using entropy augmentation to
avoid depleting HSM entropy.

| Method | Path                                   |
| :----- | :------------------------------------- |
| `POST` | `/sys/tools/random(/:source)(/:bytes)` |

### Parameters

- `bytes` `(int: 32)` – Specifies the number of bytes to return. This value can
  be specified either in the request body, or as a part of the URL.

- `format` `(string: "base64")` – Specifies the output encoding. Valid options
  are `hex` or `base64`.

- `source` `(string: "platform")` - Specifies the source of the requested bytes.
  `platform`, the default, sources bytes from the platform's entropy source.
  `seal` sources from entropy augmentation (enterprise only).
  `all` mixes bytes from all available sources.

- `drbg` `(string: "")` - When set to "auto" or "hmacdrbg", seeds a
  cryptographically secure random generator with a seed from the chosen
  source in order to efficiently generate a larger volume of random bytes.

### Sample payload

```json
{
  "format": "hex"
}
```

### Sample request

```shell-session
$ curl \
    --header "X-Vault-Token: ..." \
    --request POST \
    --data @payload.json \
    http://127.0.0.1:8200/v1/sys/tools/random/164
```

### Sample response

```json
{
  "data": {
    "random_bytes": "dGhlIHF1aWNrIGJyb3duIGZveAo="
  }
}
```

## Hash data

This endpoint returns the cryptographic hash of given data using the specified
algorithm.

| Method | Path                           |
| :----- | :----------------------------- |
| `POST` | `/sys/tools/hash(/:algorithm)` |

### Parameters

- `algorithm` `(string: "sha2-256")` – Specifies the hash algorithm to use. This
  can also be specified as part of the URL. Currently-supported algorithms are:

  - `sha2-224`
  - `sha2-256`
  - `sha2-384`
  - `sha2-512`
  - `sha3-224`
  - `sha3-256`
  - `sha3-384`
  - `sha3-512`

- `input` `(string: <required>)` – Specifies the **base64 encoded** input data.

- `format` `(string: "hex")` – Specifies the output encoding. This can be either
  `hex` or `base64`.

### Sample payload

```json
{
  "input": "adba32=="
}
```

### Sample request

```shell-session
$ curl \
    --header "X-Vault-Token: ..." \
    --request POST \
    --data @payload.json \
    http://127.0.0.1:8200/v1/sys/tools/hash/sha2-512
```

### Sample response

```json
{
  "data": {
    "sum": "dGhlIHF1aWNrIGJyb3duIGZveAo="
  }
}
```
