content/nomad/v1.11.x/content/docs/job-specification/sidecar_task.mdx, before:

---
layout: docs
page_title: sidecar_task block in the job specification
description: |-
  The `sidecar_task` block allows specifying options for configuring
  the task of the sidecar proxies used in Consul service mesh integration
---

# `sidecar_task` block in the job specification

<Placement groups={['job', 'group', 'service', 'connect', 'sidecar_task']} />

The `sidecar_task` block allows configuring various options for the proxy
sidecar or Connect gateway managed by Nomad for the [Consul
service mesh](/nomad/docs/networking/consul) integration such as
resource requirements, kill timeouts and more as defined below. It is valid
only within the context of a [`connect`][connect] block.

```hcl
job "countdash" {
  datacenters = ["dc1"]

  group "api" {
    network {
      mode = "bridge"
    }

    service {
      name = "count-api"
      port = "9001"

      connect {
        sidecar_service {}

        sidecar_task {
          resources {
            cpu    = 500
            memory = 1024
          }
        }
      }
    }

    task "web" {
      driver = "docker"

      config {
        image = "hashicorpdev/counter-api:v3"
      }
    }
  }
}
```

## Default Envoy configuration

Nomad automatically launches and manages an Envoy task for use as a proxy sidecar
or connect gateway, when [`sidecar_service`][sidecar_service] or [`gateway`][gateway]
are configured.

The default Envoy task is equivalent to:

```hcl
sidecar_task {
  name = "connect-proxy-<service>"
  #      "connect-gateway-<service>" when used as a gateway

  lifecycle { # absent when used as a gateway
    hook    = "prestart"
    sidecar = true
  }

  driver = "docker"

  config {
    image = "${meta.connect.sidecar_image}"
    #       "${meta.connect.gateway_image}" when used as a gateway

    args = [
      "-c",
      "${NOMAD_SECRETS_DIR}/envoy_bootstrap.json",
      "-l",
      "${meta.connect.log_level}",
      "--concurrency",
      "${meta.connect.proxy_concurrency}",
      "--disable-hot-restart"
    ]
  }

  logs {
    max_files     = 2
    max_file_size = 2 # MB
  }

  resources {
    cpu    = 250 # MHz
    memory = 128 # MB
  }

  shutdown_delay = "5s"
}
```

The `meta.connect.sidecar_image`, `meta.connect.gateway_image`, `meta.connect.log_level`,
and `meta.connect.proxy_concurrency` variables are [client configurable][nodemeta]
variables with the following defaults:

- `sidecar_image` - `(string: "docker.io/envoyproxy/envoy:v${NOMAD_envoy_version}")` - The official
  upstream Envoy Docker image, where `${NOMAD_envoy_version}` is resolved automatically
  by a query to Consul.
- `gateway_image` - `(string: "docker.io/envoyproxy/envoy:v${NOMAD_envoy_version}")` - The official
  upstream Envoy Docker image, where `${NOMAD_envoy_version}` is resolved automatically
  by a query to Consul.
- `log_level` - `(string: "info")` - Envoy sidecar log level. "`debug`" is useful for
  debugging Connect related issues.
- `proxy_concurrency` - `(string: "1")` - The number of [worker threads][worker_threads] the Envoy
  sidecar will run.

Custom images can make use of Consul's preferred Envoy version by making use of
Nomad's version interpolation, e.g.

```hcl
meta.connect.sidecar_image = custom/envoy-${NOMAD_envoy_version}:latest
```

## Parameters

- `name` `(string: "connect-[proxy|gateway]-<service>")` - Name of the task. Defaults to
  including the name of the service the proxy or gateway is providing.

- `driver` `(string: "docker")` - Driver used for the sidecar task.

- `user` `(string: nil)` - Determines which user is used to run the task, defaults
  to the same user the Nomad client is being run as.

- `config` `(map: nil)` - Configuration provided to the driver for initialization.
  Keys and values support [runtime variable interpolation][interpolation].

- `env` `(map: nil)` - Map of environment variables used by the driver.

- `resources` <code>([Resources][resources])</code> - Resources needed by the sidecar task.

- `meta` `(map: nil)` - Arbitrary metadata associated with this task that's opaque to Nomad.

- `logs` <code>([Logs][]: nil)</code> - Specifies logging configuration for the
  `stdout` and `stderr` of the task.

- `kill_timeout` `(string: "5s")` - Time between signalling a task that will be
  killed and killing it.

- `shutdown_delay` `(string: "5s")` - Delay between deregistering the task from
  Consul and sending it a signal to shutdown.

- `kill_signal` `(string:SIGINT)` - Kill signal to use for the task, defaults to SIGINT.

- `volume_mount` <code>([VolumeMount][]: nil)</code> - Specifies where a group
  volume should be mounted.

## Examples

The following example configures resources for the sidecar task and other configuration.

```hcl
   sidecar_task {
     resources {
       cpu = 500
       memory = 1024
     }

     env {
       FOO = "abc"
     }

     shutdown_delay = "5s"
   }

```

[connect]: /nomad/docs/job-specification/connect 'Nomad connect Job Specification'
[gateway]: /nomad/docs/job-specification/gateway
[group]: /nomad/docs/job-specification/group 'Nomad group Job Specification'
[interpolation]: /nomad/docs/reference/runtime-variable-interpolation 'Nomad interpolation'
[job]: /nomad/docs/job-specification/job 'Nomad job Job Specification'
[logs]: /nomad/docs/job-specification/logs 'Nomad logs Job Specification'
[resources]: /nomad/docs/job-specification/resources 'Nomad resources Job Specification'
[sidecar_service]: /nomad/docs/job-specification/sidecar_service 'Nomad sidecar service Specification'
[task]: /nomad/docs/job-specification/task 'Nomad task Job Specification'
[nodemeta]: /nomad/docs/configuration/client#meta
[worker_threads]: https://www.envoyproxy.io/docs/envoy/latest/operations/cli#cmdoption-concurrency
[volumemount]: /nomad/docs/job-specification/volume_mount 'Nomad volume_mount Job Specification'

Commit message:

Nomad docs: add sidecar_task.identity feature (#1448)

content/nomad/v1.11.x/content/docs/job-specification/sidecar_task.mdx, after:

---
layout: docs
page_title: sidecar_task block in the job specification
description: |-
  The `sidecar_task` block allows specifying options for configuring
  the task of the sidecar proxies used in Consul service mesh integration
---

# `sidecar_task` block in the job specification

<Placement groups={['job', 'group', 'service', 'connect', 'sidecar_task']} />

The `sidecar_task` block allows configuring various options for the proxy
sidecar or Connect gateway managed by Nomad for the [Consul
service mesh](/nomad/docs/networking/consul) integration such as
resource requirements, kill timeouts and more as defined below. It is valid
only within the context of a [`connect`][connect] block.

```hcl
job "countdash" {
  datacenters = ["dc1"]

  group "api" {
    network {
      mode = "bridge"
    }

    service {
      name = "count-api"
      port = "9001"

      connect {
        sidecar_service {}

        sidecar_task {
          resources {
            cpu    = 500
            memory = 1024
          }
        }
      }
    }

    task "web" {
      driver = "docker"

      config {
        image = "hashicorpdev/counter-api:v3"
      }
    }
  }
}
```

## Default Envoy configuration

Nomad automatically launches and manages an Envoy task for use as a proxy sidecar
or connect gateway, when [`sidecar_service`][sidecar_service] or [`gateway`][gateway]
are configured.

The default Envoy task is equivalent to:

```hcl
sidecar_task {
  name = "connect-proxy-<service>"
  #      "connect-gateway-<service>" when used as a gateway

  lifecycle { # absent when used as a gateway
    hook    = "prestart"
    sidecar = true
  }

  driver = "docker"

  config {
    image = "${meta.connect.sidecar_image}"
    #       "${meta.connect.gateway_image}" when used as a gateway

    args = [
      "-c",
      "${NOMAD_SECRETS_DIR}/envoy_bootstrap.json",
      "-l",
      "${meta.connect.log_level}",
      "--concurrency",
      "${meta.connect.proxy_concurrency}",
      "--disable-hot-restart"
    ]
  }

  logs {
    max_files     = 2
    max_file_size = 2 # MB
  }

  resources {
    cpu    = 250 # MHz
    memory = 128 # MB
  }

  shutdown_delay = "5s"
}
```

The `meta.connect.sidecar_image`, `meta.connect.gateway_image`, `meta.connect.log_level`,
and `meta.connect.proxy_concurrency` variables are [client configurable][nodemeta]
variables with the following defaults:

- `sidecar_image` - `(string: "docker.io/envoyproxy/envoy:v${NOMAD_envoy_version}")` - The official
  upstream Envoy Docker image, where `${NOMAD_envoy_version}` is resolved automatically
  by a query to Consul.
- `gateway_image` - `(string: "docker.io/envoyproxy/envoy:v${NOMAD_envoy_version}")` - The official
  upstream Envoy Docker image, where `${NOMAD_envoy_version}` is resolved automatically
  by a query to Consul.
- `log_level` - `(string: "info")` - Envoy sidecar log level. "`debug`" is useful for
  debugging Connect related issues.
- `proxy_concurrency` - `(string: "1")` - The number of [worker threads][worker_threads] the Envoy
  sidecar will run.

Custom images can make use of Consul's preferred Envoy version by making use of
Nomad's version interpolation, e.g.

```hcl
meta.connect.sidecar_image = custom/envoy-${NOMAD_envoy_version}:latest
```

## Parameters

- `name` `(string: "connect-[proxy|gateway]-<service>")` - Name of the task. Defaults to
  including the name of the service the proxy or gateway is providing.

- `driver` `(string: "docker")` - Driver used for the sidecar task.

- `user` `(string: nil)` - Determines which user is used to run the task, defaults
  to the same user the Nomad client is being run as.

- `config` `(map: nil)` - Configuration provided to the driver for initialization.
  Keys and values support [runtime variable interpolation][interpolation].

- `env` `(map: nil)` - Map of environment variables used by the driver.

- `resources` <code>([Resources][resources])</code> - Resources needed by the sidecar task.

- `meta` `(map: nil)` - Arbitrary metadata associated with this task that's opaque to Nomad.

- `logs` <code>([Logs][]: nil)</code> - Specifies logging configuration for the
  `stdout` and `stderr` of the task.

- `kill_timeout` `(string: "5s")` - Time between signalling a task that will be
  killed and killing it.

- `shutdown_delay` `(string: "5s")` - Delay between deregistering the task from
  Consul and sending it a signal to shutdown.

- `kill_signal` `(string:SIGINT)` - Kill signal to use for the task, defaults to SIGINT.

- `volume_mount` <code>([VolumeMount][]: nil)</code> - Specifies where a group
  volume should be mounted.

- `identity` <code>([Identity][]: nil)</code> - Expose an extra [Workload Identity][]
  to the task. Nomad automatically configures Consul Service Mesh sidecars with
  the required identities to communicate with Consul. Specifying this block lets
  you add extra identities that can be consumed by third-party services.

## Examples

The following example configures resources for the sidecar task and other configuration.

```hcl
   sidecar_task {
     resources {
       cpu = 500
       memory = 1024
     }

     env {
       FOO = "abc"
     }

     shutdown_delay = "5s"
   }

```

[connect]: /nomad/docs/job-specification/connect 'Nomad connect Job Specification'
[gateway]: /nomad/docs/job-specification/gateway
[group]: /nomad/docs/job-specification/group 'Nomad group Job Specification'
[interpolation]: /nomad/docs/reference/runtime-variable-interpolation 'Nomad interpolation'
[job]: /nomad/docs/job-specification/job 'Nomad job Job Specification'
[Identity]: /nomad/docs/job-specification/identity 'Nomad identity Job Specification'
[Workload Identity]: /nomad/docs/concepts/workload-identity
[logs]: /nomad/docs/job-specification/logs 'Nomad logs Job Specification'
[resources]: /nomad/docs/job-specification/resources 'Nomad resources Job Specification'
[sidecar_service]: /nomad/docs/job-specification/sidecar_service 'Nomad sidecar service Specification'
[task]: /nomad/docs/job-specification/task 'Nomad task Job Specification'
[nodemeta]: /nomad/docs/configuration/client#meta
[worker_threads]: https://www.envoyproxy.io/docs/envoy/latest/operations/cli#cmdoption-concurrency
[volumemount]: /nomad/docs/job-specification/volume_mount 'Nomad volume_mount Job Specification'
