content/terraform-docs-common/docs/cloud-docs/users-teams-organizations/2fa.mdx, before:

---
page_title: Configure two-factor authentication
description: >-
  Use two-factor authentication to secure access to HCP Terraform.
---

# Configure two-factor authentication

This topic describes how to enable two-factor authentication (2FA) and require it to access HCP Terraform and Terraform Enterprise interfaces.

<!-- BEGIN: TFC:only name:hcp-eu -->

<Note>

@include 'eu/2fa.mdx'

</Note>

<!-- END: TFC:only name:hcp-eu -->


## Overview

Configuring 2FA protects user accounts and sensitive data. Complete the following steps to configure 2FA for your organization:

1. Each member of the organization must enable 2FA for their accounts.
1. The organization owner enables the organization setting to require 2FA to access HCP Terraform and Terraform Enterprise interfaces.

Additional configuration steps may be necessary for members who log into HCP Terraform and Terraform Enterprise using their HashiCorp Cloud Platform (HCP) credentials. Complete the following steps to use 2FA in your organizations.

## Requirements

You must be an organization owner to require users within your organization to use 2FA.

You can configure 2FA on HCP Terraform or Terraform Enterprise configured for IPv4. The messaging service that sends 2FA messages does not support IPv6 addresses.

[permissions-citation]: #intentionally-unused---keep-for-maintainers

## Enable 2FA on user accounts

1. Sign in to [HCP Terraform](https://app.terraform.io/) or Terraform Enterprise.
1. Click the user icon in the upper right corner and choose **Account Settings** from the menu.
1. Click **Two Factor Authentication** in the sidebar.
1. Click **Enable 2FA** and complete the instructions to finish the configuration.
1. Terraform prompts you to scan a QR code and provide an authentication code to enable your TOTP-compliant application.

After enabling 2FA, you can perform the following actions:

- Click **Reveal codes** to view single-use backup codes. Store the codes in a safe location so that you can use them to log in if necessary.
- Click **Disable 2FA** to disable 2FA.

## Log in with 2FA enabled

After setting-up two-factor authentication, you must enter the code from your TOTP-compliant application whenever you login.

If necessary, you can also use a backup code by clicking **Use a recovery code**. You can only use each backup code to log in one time.

## Require 2FA for all users

All organization owners must enable 2FA before you can require it for the organization.

1. Sign in to [HCP Terraform](https://app.terraform.io/) or Terraform Enterprise.
1. Choose your organization and click **Settings**.
1. Click **Authentication** and click **Require two-factor**.

## Require 2FA for HashiCorp Cloud Platform users

Some users in your organization may log into HCP Terraform using their HashiCorp Cloud Platform (HCP) credentials. Refer to [Log in with a HashiCorp Cloud Platform account](/terraform/cloud-docs/users-teams-organizations/users#log-in-with-a-hashicorp-cloud-platform-account) for additional information.

The required configuration for each organization member that logs in with their HCP credentials depends on their linked HCP identity:

- **Email**: Follow the instructions in the [HashiCorp Cloud MFA](/hcp/docs/hcp/iam/mfa) docs.
- **GitHub**: Follow the instructions in the [Configuring GitHub two-factor authentication](https://docs.github.com/en/authentication/securing-your-account-with-two-factor-authentication-2fa/configuring-two-factor-authentication) docs.
- **SSO**: HCP Terraform does not support HCP SSO accounts.

Commit message:

Enhance 2FA setup and login instructions for TFE
Update the 2FA documentation to retain SMS 2FA enrollment portions for Terraform Enterprise

content/terraform-docs-common/docs/cloud-docs/users-teams-organizations/2fa.mdx, after:

---
page_title: Configure two-factor authentication
description: >-
  Use two-factor authentication to secure access to HCP Terraform.
---

# Configure two-factor authentication

This topic describes how to enable two-factor authentication (2FA) and require it to access HCP Terraform and Terraform Enterprise interfaces.

<!-- BEGIN: TFC:only name:hcp-eu -->

<Note>

@include 'eu/2fa.mdx'

</Note>

<!-- END: TFC:only name:hcp-eu -->


## Overview

Configuring 2FA protects user accounts and sensitive data. Complete the following steps to configure 2FA for your organization:

1. Each member of the organization must enable 2FA for their accounts.
1. The organization owner enables the organization setting to require 2FA to access HCP Terraform and Terraform Enterprise interfaces.

Additional configuration steps may be necessary for members who log into HCP Terraform and Terraform Enterprise using their HashiCorp Cloud Platform (HCP) credentials. Complete the following steps to use 2FA in your organizations.

## Requirements

You must be an organization owner to require users within your organization to use 2FA.

You can configure 2FA on HCP Terraform or Terraform Enterprise configured for IPv4. The messaging service that sends 2FA messages does not support IPv6 addresses.

[permissions-citation]: #intentionally-unused---keep-for-maintainers

## Enable 2FA on user accounts

1. Sign in to [HCP Terraform](https://app.terraform.io/) or Terraform Enterprise.
1. Click the user icon in the upper right corner and choose **Account Settings** from the menu.
<!-- BEGIN: TFEnterprise:only name:block-sms-mfa-enrollment -->
1. Click **Two Factor Authentication** in the sidebar and enable one of the following settings:
  - **Application**
  - **SMS Only (Text Message)**. Note that you cannot use SMS when operating Terraform Enterprise in an IPv6-only network. Refer to [Requirements](#requirements).
1. Enter an SMS-enabled phone number. A phone number is optional when you enable **Application**.
1. Click **Enable 2FA** and complete the instructions to finish the configuration.
1. If you enabled **Application**, Terraform prompts you to scan a QR code and provide an authentication code to enable your TOTP-compliant application.
<!-- END: TFEnterprise:only name:block-sms-mfa-enrollment -->
<!-- BEGIN: TFC:only name:block-sms-mfa-enrollment -->
1. Click **Two Factor Authentication** in the sidebar.
1. Click **Enable 2FA** and complete the instructions to finish the configuration.
1. Terraform prompts you to scan a QR code and provide an authentication code to enable your TOTP-compliant application.
<!-- END: TFC:only name:block-sms-mfa-enrollment -->

After enabling 2FA, you can perform the following actions:

- Click **Reveal codes** to view single-use backup codes. Store the codes in a safe location so that you can use them to log in if necessary.
- Click **Disable 2FA** to disable 2FA.

## Log in with 2FA enabled
<!-- BEGIN: TFEnterprise:only name:block-sms-mfa-enrollment -->
After setting up two-factor authentication, you must enter the code from your TOTP-compliant application or from an SMS sent to your approved SMS-enabled phone number whenever you login.
<!-- END: TFEnterprise:only name:block-sms-mfa-enrollment -->

<!-- BEGIN: TFC:only name:block-sms-mfa-enrollment -->
After setting up two-factor authentication, you must enter the code from your TOTP-compliant application whenever you login.
<!-- END: TFC:only name:block-sms-mfa-enrollment -->

If necessary, you can also use a backup code by clicking **Use a recovery code**. You can only use each backup code to log in one time.

## Require 2FA for all users

All organization owners must enable 2FA before you can require it for the organization.

1. Sign in to [HCP Terraform](https://app.terraform.io/) or Terraform Enterprise.
1. Choose your organization and click **Settings**.
1. Click **Authentication** and click **Require two-factor**.

## Require 2FA for HashiCorp Cloud Platform users

Some users in your organization may log into HCP Terraform using their HashiCorp Cloud Platform (HCP) credentials. Refer to [Log in with a HashiCorp Cloud Platform account](/terraform/cloud-docs/users-teams-organizations/users#log-in-with-a-hashicorp-cloud-platform-account) for additional information.

The required configuration for each organization member that logs in with their HCP credentials depends on their linked HCP identity:

- **Email**: Follow the instructions in the [HashiCorp Cloud MFA](/hcp/docs/hcp/iam/mfa) docs.
- **GitHub**: Follow the instructions in the [Configuring GitHub two-factor authentication](https://docs.github.com/en/authentication/securing-your-account-with-two-factor-authentication-2fa/configuring-two-factor-authentication) docs.
- **SSO**: HCP Terraform does not support HCP SSO accounts.
