content/vault/v1.20.x/content/docs/sysadmin/snapshots/restore.mdx, before:

---
layout: docs
page_title: Restore a snapshot
description: >-
  Restore a Vault snapshot.
---

# Restore a Vault snapshot

Manually restore data for a Vault cluster leader node with a saved snapshot.

## Before you start

- **You must have a working knowledge of how Vault saves data**.
- **You must have a valid Vault cluster configuration using integrated storage**.
- **You must know, and be able to contact your unseal/recovery key holders**. In
  addition to the new root token generated during reinitialization, you need the
  original cluster unseal keys to unseal Vault after restoring the snapshot.
- **You must have permission to access encrypted data in backed storage**.


## Step 1: Bring your Vault cluster back online

Your Vault cluster must be online to restore a snapshot.

Resolve the circumstances that required you to restore from backup, reinitialize
your Vault cluster with new storage, and authenticate with the new initial root
token generated during re-initialization. The new root token is temporary as you
will overwrite the cluster state with the snapshot data.



## Step 2: Copy the snapshot file to the cluster

You must save your snapshot file as a local file on the cluster to restore the
data.

To restore a snapshot to a disaster recovery replication cluster, you must copy
your Vault snapshot files for the primary and DR replica clusters onto restored
members of the respective clusters.

To restore a snapshot to a performance replication cluster, you must copy
your Vault snapshot files for the primary and secondary performance replica
clusters onto restored members of the respective clusters.



## Step 3: Force a snapshot restore

You must use force the snapshot restore since the auto-unseal or Shamir keys are
not consistent with the snapshot data, which came from a different cluster.

<Tabs>

<Tab heading="CLI" group="cli">

Run
[`vault operator raft snapshot restore`](/vault/docs/commands/operator/raft#snapshot-restore)
with the local snapshot file path and the `-force` flag:

```shell-session
$ vault operator raft snapshot restore -force <local_file_path>
```

For example:
   
<CodeBlockConfig hideClipboard>

```shell-session
$ vault operator raft snapshot restore -force /tmp/snapshots/backup.snap
```

</CodeBlockConfig>

</Tab>

<Tab heading="API" group="api">

Call the
[`/v1/sys/storage/raft/snapshot-force`](/vault/api-docs/system/storage/raft#force-restore-raft-using-a-snapshot)
endpoint with the local snapshot file path:

```shell-session
$ curl                                       \
    --request POST                           \
    --header "X-Vault-Token: ${VAULT_TOKEN}" \
    --data-binary @<local_file_path>         \
    ${VAULT_ADDR}/v1/sys/storage/raft/snapshot-force
```

For example:

<CodeBlockConfig hideClipboard>

```shell-session
$ curl                                       \
    --request POST                           \
    --header "X-Vault-Token: ${VAULT_TOKEN}" \
    --data-binary /tmp/snapshots/backup.snap \
    ${VAULT_ADDR}/v1/sys/storage/raft/snapshot-force
```

</CodeBlockConfig>

</Tab>

</Tabs>

## Step 4: Unseal Vault

<Tabs>

<Tab heading="CLI" group="cli">

Have each person with an unseal key share run
`vault operator unseal` with their original unseal
key until reaching the number of key shares required by your original quorum
configuration to unseal your Vault cluster:


```shell-session
$ vault operator unseal
```

Enter the unseal key when prompted:

<CodeBlockConfig hideClipboard>

```plaintext
Unseal Key (will be hidden):
```

</CodeBlockConfig>

</Tab>

<Tab heading="API" group="api">

Have each person with an unseal key share run
[`v1/sys/unseal`](/vault/api-docs/system/unseal) with their original unseal
key until reaching the number of key shares required by your original quorum
configuration to unseal your Vault cluster:
   
```shell-session
$ curl                                       \
   --request POST                            \
   --header "X-Vault-Token: ${VAULT_TOKEN}"  \
   --data '{"key": "<unseal_key>"}'          \
   ${VAULT_ADDR}/v1/sys/unseal
```

</Tab>

</Tabs>

Commit message:

added Isolate your test instance warning

content/vault/v1.20.x/content/docs/sysadmin/snapshots/restore.mdx, after:

---
layout: docs
page_title: Restore a snapshot
description: >-
  Restore a Vault snapshot.
---

# Restore a Vault snapshot

Manually restore data for a Vault cluster leader node with a saved snapshot.

## Before you start

- **You must have a working knowledge of how Vault saves data**.
- **You must have a valid Vault cluster configuration using integrated storage**.
- **You must know, and be able to contact your unseal/recovery key holders**. In
  addition to the new root token generated during reinitialization, you need the
  original cluster unseal keys to unseal Vault after restoring the snapshot.
- **You must have permission to access encrypted data in backed storage**.

<Warning title="Isolate your test instance">

Upgrade or restore tests should always be performed in a fully isolated
network environment. This isolation is critical to prevent both unwanted
cluster-to-cluster communication (which maintains data consistency) and to
stop the test instance from attempting to revoke 3rd-party
credentials (secrets, etc.). If the test instance revokes live credentials,
they may expire, which might result in irrevocable leases for the production
Vault cluster from which the snapshot was taken.

</Warning>

## Step 1: Bring your Vault cluster back online

Your Vault cluster must be online to restore a snapshot.

Resolve the circumstances that required you to restore from backup, reinitialize
your Vault cluster with new storage, and authenticate with the new initial root
token generated during re-initialization. The new root token is temporary as you
will overwrite the cluster state with the snapshot data.



## Step 2: Copy the snapshot file to the cluster

You must save your snapshot file as a local file on the cluster to restore the
data.

To restore a snapshot to a disaster recovery replication cluster, you must copy
your Vault snapshot files for the primary and DR replica clusters onto restored
members of the respective clusters.

To restore a snapshot to a performance replication cluster, you must copy
your Vault snapshot files for the primary and secondary performance replica
clusters onto restored members of the respective clusters.



## Step 3: Force a snapshot restore

You must use force the snapshot restore since the auto-unseal or Shamir keys are
not consistent with the snapshot data, which came from a different cluster.

<Tabs>

<Tab heading="CLI" group="cli">

Run
[`vault operator raft snapshot restore`](/vault/docs/commands/operator/raft#snapshot-restore)
with the local snapshot file path and the `-force` flag:

```shell-session
$ vault operator raft snapshot restore -force <local_file_path>
```

For example:
   
<CodeBlockConfig hideClipboard>

```shell-session
$ vault operator raft snapshot restore -force /tmp/snapshots/backup.snap
```

</CodeBlockConfig>

</Tab>

<Tab heading="API" group="api">

Call the
[`/v1/sys/storage/raft/snapshot-force`](/vault/api-docs/system/storage/raft#force-restore-raft-using-a-snapshot)
endpoint with the local snapshot file path:

```shell-session
$ curl                                       \
    --request POST                           \
    --header "X-Vault-Token: ${VAULT_TOKEN}" \
    --data-binary @<local_file_path>         \
    ${VAULT_ADDR}/v1/sys/storage/raft/snapshot-force
```

For example:

<CodeBlockConfig hideClipboard>

```shell-session
$ curl                                       \
    --request POST                           \
    --header "X-Vault-Token: ${VAULT_TOKEN}" \
    --data-binary /tmp/snapshots/backup.snap \
    ${VAULT_ADDR}/v1/sys/storage/raft/snapshot-force
```

</CodeBlockConfig>

</Tab>

</Tabs>

## Step 4: Unseal Vault

<Tabs>

<Tab heading="CLI" group="cli">

Have each person with an unseal key share run
`vault operator unseal` with their original unseal
key until reaching the number of key shares required by your original quorum
configuration to unseal your Vault cluster:


```shell-session
$ vault operator unseal
```

Enter the unseal key when prompted:

<CodeBlockConfig hideClipboard>

```plaintext
Unseal Key (will be hidden):
```

</CodeBlockConfig>

</Tab>

<Tab heading="API" group="api">

Have each person with an unseal key share run
[`v1/sys/unseal`](/vault/api-docs/system/unseal) with their original unseal
key until reaching the number of key shares required by your original quorum
configuration to unseal your Vault cluster:
   
```shell-session
$ curl                                       \
   --request POST                            \
   --header "X-Vault-Token: ${VAULT_TOKEN}"  \
   --data '{"key": "<unseal_key>"}'          \
   ${VAULT_ADDR}/v1/sys/unseal
```

</Tab>

</Tabs>
