---
page_title: Plugin Development - Testing
description: |-
  Write acceptance tests and unit tests with the terraform-plugin-testing Go
  module.
---

# Plugin Testing

The testing framework for Terraform providers,`terraform-plugin-testing`,
uses standard Go features such as the `go test` command and the standard
library `testing` package. In addition to this documentation, refer to the
[generated Go
documentation](https://pkg.go.dev/github.com/hashicorp/terraform-plugin-testing).

This section introduces strategies for testing provider functionality with
acceptance tests and unit tests.

## Acceptance Tests

Acceptance tests for Terraform providers are a feature of the
[`terraform-plugin-testing`](https://pkg.go.dev/github.com/hashicorp/terraform-plugin-testing)
framework. The testing framework uses standard Go features such as the `go
test` command.  It runs a local Terraform binary to perform real plan, apply,
refresh, and destroy operations, and enables developers to make assertions
about what happens during those actions.

Refer to [Acceptance Testing](/terraform/plugin/testing/acceptance-tests) to learn more.

## Unit Tests

Testing plugin code in small, isolated units is distinct from Acceptance Tests,
and does not require network connections. Unit tests are commonly used for
testing helper methods that expand or flatten API response data into data
structures for storage into state by Terraform. This section covers the
specifics of writing Unit Tests for Terraform Plugin code.

For a given plugin, Unit Tests can be run from the root of the project by using
a common make task:

```shell
$ make test
```

Refer to [Unit Testing](/terraform/plugin/testing/unit-testing) to learn more.

## Testing Patterns

Terraform developers are encouraged to write acceptance tests that create real
resource to verify the behavior of plugins, ensuring a reliable and safe way to
manage infrastructure. In [Testing
Patterns](/terraform/plugin/testing/testing-patterns) we cover some basic
acceptance tests that almost all resources should have to validate not only the
functionality of the resource, but that the resource behaves as Terraform would
expect.
