content/hcp-docs/content/docs/boundary/index.mdx, before:

---
page_title: Overview
sidebar_title: Overview
description: |-
  This topic provides an overview of HCP Boundary, HashiCorp's secure access management solution.
---

# What is HCP Boundary?

HCP Boundary is a fully-managed, cloud-based, workflow that enables secure connections to remote hosts and critical systems across cloud and on-premise environments. 
As a managed service, HCP Boundary enables zero-trust networking without needing to manage the underlying infrastructure. To get started with HCP Boundary today, 
visit [our onboarding guide](/boundary/tutorials/hcp-getting-started).

![Boundary Overview](/img/docs/boundary/boundary-overview.png)

## Why HCP Boundary?

HCP Boundary reduces the complexity of managing access to infrastructure, and enables the user to simply log in, select the desired host or system, and connect. 
HCP Boundary handles the routing, connections, and credential brokering on the backend. Users securely connect to their remote systems or hosts without exposing 
a credential, address, or network. 

The need for secure remote access to dynamic environments is growing rapidly, and today's solutions (such as VPNs, SSH bastions, and PAM) fail to scale effectively 
in ephemeral, multi-cloud environments. Current solutions are complex and require multiple network addresses, credentials, permissions, and expertise for users to 
access remote hosts and systems. These solutions commonly grant users access to entire networks and credentials, vastly increasing the attack surface area. Users 
oftentimes require multiple credentials for the network, hosts, and possibly services. With ephemeral environments, maintaining addresses is even more brittle and 
onboarding or offboarding users is often manual, resulting in increased overhead, tickets with helpdesk, and time to value.

**For administrators:** Boundary provides a simple way for verified users to have secure access to cloud and self-managed infrastructures without exposing your network 
or the use of managing credentials. Boundary fully automates workflows for both user and target onboarding, which drastically minimizes the configuration overhead 
for operators and, unlike traditional access solutions, enables them to keep users and targets up-to-date in cloud environments. HCP Boundary makes it even easier 
to take advantage of Boundary by removing the operational overhead of managing it in your environment.

**For developers:** Boundary offers developers a standardized workflow for connecting to their infrastructure, wherever it resides. Boundary's consistent access 
workflow removes the need to manage target credentials or target network addresses. This increases developer productivity by reducing time spent figuring out how 
to connect to remote systems. Boundary's automated service discovery provides an easier and faster experience for accessing dynamic infrastructure.

## Tutorial
Refer to the Getting Started with [HCP Boundary](/boundary/tutorials/hcp-getting-started) tutorial to get hands-on with HCP Boundary 
and set up your managed Boundary environment.

<HCPCallout product="boundary" />

Commit message:

docs: Remove HCPb security model doc

content/hcp-docs/content/docs/boundary/index.mdx, after:

---
page_title: Overview
sidebar_title: Overview
description: |-
  This topic provides an overview of HCP Boundary, HashiCorp's secure access management solution.
---

# What is HCP Boundary?

HCP Boundary is a fully-managed, cloud-based, workflow that enables secure connections to remote hosts and critical systems across cloud and on-premise environments.
As a managed service, HCP Boundary enables zero-trust networking without needing to manage the underlying infrastructure. To get started with HCP Boundary today,
visit [our onboarding guide](/boundary/tutorials/hcp-getting-started).

![Boundary Overview](/img/docs/boundary/boundary-overview.png)

## Why HCP Boundary?

HCP Boundary reduces the complexity of managing access to infrastructure, and enables the user to simply log in, select the desired host or system, and connect.
HCP Boundary handles the routing, connections, and credential brokering on the backend. Users securely connect to their remote systems or hosts without exposing
a credential, address, or network.

The need for secure remote access to dynamic environments is growing rapidly, and today's solutions (such as VPNs, SSH bastions, and PAM) fail to scale effectively
in ephemeral, multi-cloud environments. Current solutions are complex and require multiple network addresses, credentials, permissions, and expertise for users to
access remote hosts and systems. These solutions commonly grant users access to entire networks and credentials, vastly increasing the attack surface area. Users
oftentimes require multiple credentials for the network, hosts, and possibly services. With ephemeral environments, maintaining addresses is even more brittle and
onboarding or offboarding users is often manual, resulting in increased overhead, tickets with helpdesk, and time to value.

**For administrators:** Boundary provides a simple way for verified users to have secure access to cloud and self-managed infrastructures without exposing your network
or the use of managing credentials. Boundary fully automates workflows for both user and target onboarding, which drastically minimizes the configuration overhead
for operators and, unlike traditional access solutions, enables them to keep users and targets up-to-date in cloud environments. HCP Boundary makes it even easier
to take advantage of Boundary by removing the operational overhead of managing it in your environment.

**For developers:** Boundary offers developers a standardized workflow for connecting to their infrastructure, wherever it resides. Boundary's consistent access
workflow removes the need to manage target credentials or target network addresses. This increases developer productivity by reducing time spent figuring out how
to connect to remote systems. Boundary's automated service discovery provides an easier and faster experience for accessing dynamic infrastructure.

## Tutorial
Refer to the Getting Started with [HCP Boundary](/boundary/tutorials/hcp-getting-started) tutorial to get hands-on with HCP Boundary
and set up your managed Boundary environment.

<HCPCallout product="boundary" />

## More information

Refer to the [Boundary security model documentation](/boundary/docs/secure/security-model) for more information about how Boundary provides confidentiality, integrity, authentication, and accountability for access and session brokering operations.
