content/hcp-docs/content/docs/vault/get-started/access-cluster.mdx, before:

---
page_title: Access a cluster
sidebar_title: Access cluster
description: |-
  Access a HCP Vault Dedicated cluster.
---

# Access a cluster

HCP Vault Dedicated clusters, like self-managed Vault Enterprise clusters, can be accessed
using:

- [Vault command-line interface (CLI)](#cli-access)
- [Application programming interface (API)](#api-access)
- [Web user interface (UI)](#ui-access)

This document assumes you have access to either a [HCP Vault Dedicated admin
token](/hcp/docs/vault/get-started/generate-admin-token), or a token generated
from a [Vault auth method](/vault/docs/auth).

Before you can access the Vault cluster, you must retrieve the cluster URL. When
a Vault cluster is deployed with the cluster accessibility option set to
**Private** you can use the private URL from [the HCP Portal](https://portal.cloud.hashicorp.com/) to connect from
any device in a network that has a connection to the HashiCorp Virtual Network
such as peering connection for Amazon Web Services or Microsoft Azure. Refer to
the [HashiCorp Virtual Network documentation](/hcp/docs/hcp/network) for more
information on supported connectivity options.

When the cluster accessibility option is set to **Public**, you can connect to
any internet connected device.

<Highlight title="Recommended practice for HCP administrators">

If your use case requires that you set the cluster accessibility option to
public, we recommend you manage which addresses can connect to HCP Vault Dedicated using
the IP allow list.

</Highlight>

## Retrieve HCP Vault Dedicated cluster address

Log into the [HCP Portal](https://portal.cloud.hashicorp.com/) and navigate to
the Vault cluster you wish to access.

From the **Vault cluster** page, click either the **Private** or **Public**
link to copy the address to your clipboard.
![HCP Portal showing the HCP Vault Dedicated cluster overview page with the cluster
URLs window highlighted with both a public and private URL link
available](/img/docs/vault/ui-hcp-portal-vault-url.png)

## Environment variables

For convenience, you can set the following environment variables:

- `VAULT_ADDR`: Set it to the target HCP Vault Dedicated cluster address
- `VAULT_TOKEN`: Set it to the Vault client token to access your cluster
- `VAULT_NAMESPACE`: Set it to the target namespace to operate on (the top-level
  namespace is `admin`)

**Example:** The following command sets environment variables for the [admin
token](/hcp/docs/vault/get-started/generate-admin-token), cluster URL, and
namespace.

```shell-session
$ export \
     VAULT_ADDR=https://<vault-cluster-address:8200> \
     VAULT_NAMESPACE=admin \
     VAULT_TOKEN=hvs.<foo...>
```

Refer to the Vault documentation for the list of Vault specific [environment
variables](/vault/docs/commands#environment-variables).

## CLI access

You can access an HCP Vault Dedicated cluster using the Vault Community Edition, or Vault
Enterprise binary. Refer to the [Installing Vault
documentation](/vault/docs/install) for more information on installing the CLI.

We recommend using the Vault Enterprise binary. If you are running the Vault
Community Edition binary, some enterprise specific commands may not be
available.

The Vault CLI requires the address of the Vault cluster, and a Vault
namespace be passed to the CLI to authenticate with the Vault cluster. The
address and namespace can be passed as a command line flag or set as
[environment variables](/vault/docs/commands#environment-variables).

When a new HCP Vault Dedicated cluster is created, the only auth method enabled is the
[token auth method](/vault/docs/auth/token). You can pass a token generated from
the token auth method to the CLI interactively, or as an optional positional
argument. When an auth method such as [userpass](/vault/docs/auth/userpass) is
enabled, you can specify the method and interactively authenticate with Vault to
retrieve a token using the `-method` option.

### CLI flag

Pass the admin token, cluster URL, and namespace as CLI flags instead of using
the [environment variables](#environment-variables).

```shell-session
$ vault login \
     -address=https://<vault-cluster-address:8200> \
     -namespace=admin \
     token=hvs.<foo...>
```

<Warning title="Specify the target namespace">

When you are working with HCP Vault Dedicated, you must specify the target
namespace using the command flag (`-namespace`) or an environment variable
(`VAULT_NAMESPACE`). In absence of an explicit namespace, your request gets sent
to the `root` namespace which results in an error.

</Warning>

**Example output:**

<CodeBlockConfig hideClipboard>

```plaintext
Success! You are now authenticated. The token information displayed below
is already stored in the token helper. You do NOT need to run "vault login"
again. Future Vault requests will automatically use this token.

Key                  Value
---                  -----
token                hvs.<foo...>
token_accessor       aBCdEFGh4W02UEMNo7gibTLO.mWxyz
token_duration       5h56m20s
token_renewable      false
token_policies       ["default" "hcp-root"]
identity_policies    []
policies             ["default" "hcp-root"]
```

</CodeBlockConfig>

## API access

HCP Vault Dedicated clusters can also be accessed through its API. There are a number of
official as well as community maintained [libraries](/vault/api-docs/libraries)
that can be used in addition to common command line utilities such as `cURL`.

Like the CLI, the API requires the address of the Vault cluster, a Vault
namespace, and a Vault token.

```shell-session
$ curl \
    --header "X-Vault-Token: <foo...>" \
    --header "X-Vault-Namespace: admin" \
    https://<vault-cluster-address:8200>/v1/sys/auth
```

<Warning title="Specify the target namespace">

When you are working with HCP Vault Dedicated, you must specify the target
namespace(`X-Vault-Namespace`). In absence of an explicit namespace, your
request gets sent to the `root` namespace which results in an error.

</Warning>

**Example output:**

The example output has been formatted with `jq` for readability.

<CodeBlockConfig hideClipboard>

```json
{
  "request_id": "24f60bfa-bf45-1fe1-67ef-4a4ba71e6ebb",
  "lease_id": "",
  "renewable": false,
  "lease_duration": 0,
  "data": {
    "token/": {
      "accessor": "auth_ns_token_77abcdefg",
      "config": {
        "default_lease_ttl": 0,
        "force_no_cache": false,
        "max_lease_ttl": 0,
        "token_type": "default"
      },
      "description": "token based credentials",
      "external_entropy_access": false,
      "local": false,
      "options": null,
      "plugin_version": "",
      "running_plugin_version": "v1.15.5+builtin.vault",
      "running_sha256": "",
      "seal_wrap": false,
      "type": "ns_token",
      "uuid": "d55b733d-8835-0aaf-8059-c6fe0b093f31"
    }
  },
  "wrap_info": null,
  "warnings": null,
  "auth": null
}
```

</CodeBlockConfig>

## UI access

The Vault UI is enabled by default for HCP Vault Dedicated clusters. The UI can be
accessed directly using the private or public address from [the HCP Portal](https://portal.cloud.hashicorp.com/). In
addition to direct access, HCP Portal users can access a Vault cluster through
the HCP Proxy.

The HCP Proxy provides access to the Vault UI from anywhere, even when public
access is disabled by authenticating the HCP IAM users credentials prior to
authorizing access.

### Direct access

Open a web browser and paste the public address into the address bar, or the
private address into the address bar from a device in a network that has a
connection to the HashiCorp virtual network.

Paste the admin token into the **Token** textbox, or select a configured auth method.
![Vault token auth method login form from the Vault user interface showing the
token textbox highlighted](/img/docs/vault/ui-hcp-vault-token-auth-method.png)

### HCP Proxy access

<Note>

HCP Proxy access is supported for HCP Vault Dedicated clusters deployed to Amazon Web Services (AWS) and Azure.

</Note>

Log into the [HCP Portal](https://portal.cloud.hashicorp.com/) and navigate to
the Vault cluster you wish to access.

From the **Vault cluster** page, click **Launch web UI**. This will launch a new
browser or browser tab. Authentication through the HCP Proxy is transparent to
the user.

<Note>

The URL for the Vault UI from the proxy is different than the HCP Vault Dedicated clusters
public URL.

</Note>

Paste the admin token into the **Token** textbox, or select a configured auth method.
![Vault token auth method login form from the Vault user interface showing the
token textbox highlighted](/img/docs/vault/ui-hcp-vault-token-auth-method.png)

## Tutorial

Refer to the following step-by-step tutorials to learn more:

- [Access a Vault cluster on HCP](/vault/tutorials/cloud/vault-access-cluster)

Commit message:

Add callout for new port support

content/hcp-docs/content/docs/vault/get-started/access-cluster.mdx, after:

---
page_title: Access a cluster
sidebar_title: Access cluster
description: |-
  Access a HCP Vault Dedicated cluster.
---

# Access a cluster

You can access your HCP Vault Dedicated clusters, like self-managed Vault Enterprise clusters,
using the:

- [Vault command-line interface (CLI)](#cli-access)
- [Application programming interface (API)](#api-access)
- [Web user interface (UI)](#ui-access)

This document assumes you have access to either a [HCP Vault Dedicated admin
token](/hcp/docs/vault/get-started/generate-admin-token), or a token generated
from a [Vault auth method](/vault/docs/auth).

Before you can access the Vault cluster, you must retrieve the cluster URL. When
you deploy a Vault cluster with the cluster accessibility option set to
**Private** you can use the private URL from [the HCP
Portal](https://portal.cloud.hashicorp.com/) to connect from any device in a
network that has a connection to the HashiCorp Virtual Network
such as peering connection for Amazon Web Services or Microsoft Azure. Refer to
the [HashiCorp Virtual Network documentation](/hcp/docs/hcp/network) for more
information on supported connectivity options.

When you set the cluster accessibility option to **Public**, you can connect using
any internet connected device.

<Highlight title="Recommended practice for HCP administrators">

If your use case requires the cluster accessibility option to
public, we recommend you manage which addresses can connect to HCP Vault
Dedicated using the IP allow list.

</Highlight>

## Retrieve HCP Vault Dedicated cluster address

Log into the [HCP Portal](https://portal.cloud.hashicorp.com/) and navigate to
the Vault cluster you want to access.

From the **Vault cluster** page, click either the **Private** or **Public**
link to copy the address to your clipboard.
![HCP Portal showing the HCP Vault Dedicated cluster overview page with the cluster
URLs window highlighted with both a public and private URL link
available](/img/docs/vault/ui-hcp-portal-vault-url.png)

<Highlight title="Suported TCP ports">

By default, you connect to Vault using Vault's standard port, `8200`. If your
security policies require a different port, create a support ticket to have
either port `443` or `8207` enabled for your HCP Vault Dedicated cluster.

</Highlight>

## Environment variables

For convenience, you can set the following environment variables:

- `VAULT_ADDR`: Set it to the target HCP Vault Dedicated cluster address
- `VAULT_TOKEN`: Set it to the Vault client token to access your cluster
- `VAULT_NAMESPACE`: Set it to the target namespace to operate on (the top-level
  namespace is `admin`)

The following command sets environment variables for the [admin
token](/hcp/docs/vault/get-started/generate-admin-token), cluster URL, and
namespace.

```shell-session
$ export \
     VAULT_ADDR=https://<vault-cluster-address:8200> \
     VAULT_NAMESPACE=admin \
     VAULT_TOKEN=hvs.1234567890abcdef
```

Refer to the Vault documentation for the list of Vault specific [environment
variables](/vault/docs/commands#environment-variables).

## CLI access

You can access an HCP Vault Dedicated cluster using the Vault Community Edition, or Vault
Enterprise binary. Refer to the [Installing Vault
documentation](/vault/docs/install) for more information on installing the CLI.

We recommend using the Vault Enterprise binary. If you are running the Vault
Community Edition binary, some enterprise specific commands may not be
available.

The Vault CLI requires the address of the Vault cluster, and a Vault
namespace be passed to the CLI to authenticate with the Vault cluster. The
address and namespace can be passed as a command line flag or set as
[environment variables](/vault/docs/commands#environment-variables).

When a new HCP Vault Dedicated cluster is created, the only auth method enabled is the
[token auth method](/vault/docs/auth/token). You can pass a token generated from
the token auth method to the CLI interactively, or as an optional positional
argument. When an auth method such as [userpass](/vault/docs/auth/userpass) is
enabled, you can specify the method and interactively authenticate with Vault to
retrieve a token using the `-method` option.

### CLI flag

Pass the admin token, cluster URL, and namespace as CLI flags instead of using
the [environment variables](#environment-variables).

```shell-session
$ vault login \
     -address=https://<vault-cluster-address:8200> \
     -namespace=admin \
     token=hvs.<foo...>
```

<Warning title="Specify the target namespace">

When you are working with HCP Vault Dedicated, you must specify the target
namespace using the command flag (`-namespace`) or an environment variable
(`VAULT_NAMESPACE`). In absence of an explicit namespace, your request gets sent
to the `root` namespace which results in an error.

</Warning>

**Example output:**

<CodeBlockConfig hideClipboard>

```plaintext
Success! You are now authenticated. The token information displayed below
is already stored in the token helper. You do NOT need to run "vault login"
again. Future Vault requests will automatically use this token.

Key                  Value
---                  -----
token                hvs.<foo...>
token_accessor       aBCdEFGh4W02UEMNo7gibTLO.mWxyz
token_duration       5h56m20s
token_renewable      false
token_policies       ["default" "hcp-root"]
identity_policies    []
policies             ["default" "hcp-root"]
```

</CodeBlockConfig>

## API access

HCP Vault Dedicated clusters can also be accessed through its API. There are a number of
official as well as community maintained [libraries](/vault/api-docs/libraries)
that can be used in addition to common command line utilities such as `cURL`.

Like the CLI, the API requires the address of the Vault cluster, a Vault
namespace, and a Vault token.

```shell-session
$ curl \
    --header "X-Vault-Token: <foo...>" \
    --header "X-Vault-Namespace: admin" \
    https://<vault-cluster-address:8200>/v1/sys/auth
```

<Warning title="Specify the target namespace">

When you are working with HCP Vault Dedicated, you must specify the target
namespace(`X-Vault-Namespace`). In absence of an explicit namespace, your
request gets sent to the `root` namespace which results in an error.

</Warning>

**Example output:**

The example output has been formatted with `jq` for readability.

<CodeBlockConfig hideClipboard>

```json
{
  "request_id": "24f60bfa-bf45-1fe1-67ef-4a4ba71e6ebb",
  "lease_id": "",
  "renewable": false,
  "lease_duration": 0,
  "data": {
    "token/": {
      "accessor": "auth_ns_token_77abcdefg",
      "config": {
        "default_lease_ttl": 0,
        "force_no_cache": false,
        "max_lease_ttl": 0,
        "token_type": "default"
      },
      "description": "token based credentials",
      "external_entropy_access": false,
      "local": false,
      "options": null,
      "plugin_version": "",
      "running_plugin_version": "v1.15.5+builtin.vault",
      "running_sha256": "",
      "seal_wrap": false,
      "type": "ns_token",
      "uuid": "d55b733d-8835-0aaf-8059-c6fe0b093f31"
    }
  },
  "wrap_info": null,
  "warnings": null,
  "auth": null
}
```

</CodeBlockConfig>

## UI access

The Vault UI is enabled by default for HCP Vault Dedicated clusters. The UI can be
accessed directly using the private or public address from [the HCP Portal](https://portal.cloud.hashicorp.com/). In
addition to direct access, HCP Portal users can access a Vault cluster through
the HCP Proxy.

The HCP Proxy provides access to the Vault UI from anywhere, even when public
access is disabled by authenticating the HCP IAM users credentials prior to
authorizing access.

### Direct access

Open a web browser and paste the public address into the address bar, or the
private address into the address bar from a device in a network that has a
connection to the HashiCorp virtual network.

Paste the admin token into the **Token** textbox, or select a configured auth method.
![Vault token auth method login form from the Vault user interface showing the
token textbox highlighted](/img/docs/vault/ui-hcp-vault-token-auth-method.png)

### HCP Proxy access

<Note>

HCP Proxy access is supported for HCP Vault Dedicated clusters deployed to Amazon Web Services (AWS) and Azure.

</Note>

Log into the [HCP Portal](https://portal.cloud.hashicorp.com/) and navigate to
the Vault cluster you wish to access.

From the **Vault cluster** page, click **Launch web UI**. This will launch a new
browser or browser tab. Authentication through the HCP Proxy is transparent to
the user.

<Note>

The URL for the Vault UI from the proxy is different than the HCP Vault Dedicated clusters
public URL.

</Note>

Paste the admin token into the **Token** textbox, or select a configured auth method.
![Vault token auth method login form from the Vault user interface showing the
token textbox highlighted](/img/docs/vault/ui-hcp-vault-token-auth-method.png)

## Tutorial

Refer to the following step-by-step tutorials to learn more:

- [Access a Vault cluster on HCP](/vault/tutorials/cloud/vault-access-cluster)
