content/terraform-enterprise/v202402-1/docs/enterprise/flexible-deployments/install/podman/install.mdx, before:

---
page_title: Podman - Installation - Flexible Deployment Options - Terraform Enterprise
description: >-
  Learn how to install Terraform Enterprise Flexible Deployment Options
  with Podman.
---

# Podman installation

<Note title="Podman in beta">
    Note: Running Terraform Enterprise on Podman is still in beta. You should not deploy beta features in
    production environments! Provision a dedicated test environment before installing Terraform Enterprise on Podman.
    If you have questions or feedback about the Podman beta, contact your HashiCorp account representative.
</Note>

These instructions cover installing and running Terraform Enterprise on Podman on a RHEL 8 or RHEL 9 host using a
Kubernetes pod specification. This workflow sets up rootful Podman with a non-root user, meaning that the Podman
service runs as root while processes within the container run as non-root. Using a Kubernetes pod specification is our
recommended workflow. However, you can deploy Terraform Enterprise on Podman using Docker Compose or other tools that
integrate with Podman.

## Requirements

Before you begin, ensure you meet the [requirements](/terraform/enterprise/flexible-deployments/install/podman/requirements)
for installing Terraform Enterprise on Podman.

## Set up

  1. Connect to the instance where you want to run Terraform Enterprise.

  1. Create a new directory with a name of your choice. Our documentation uses `/opt/fdo` as our example directory.

  1. For mounted disk installations, navigate into the `/opt/fdo/` directory and create a `data` directory. Later,
  you will use this directory as a volume mount to store Terraform Enterprise application data.

  1. From the `/opt/fdo/` directory, create a `certs` directory and place your TLS certificate (`cert.pem`), TLS
  private key (`key.pem`), and CA certificates bundle (`bundle.pem`) inside. If you don’t have a CA certificates bundle,
  place your TLS certificate (`cert.pem`) inside `bundle.pem` instead. When finished, the `certs` directory should look like this:

  ```sh
  certs
  ├── cert.pem
  ├── key.pem
  └── bundle.pem
  ```

  1. Alongside the `certs` and optional `data` directories, create a `kube.yaml` file in the `/opt/fdo/` directory and populate
  it with your desired pod configuration. Be sure to replace values enclosed in `<>` with your installation's values. For
  example, set `TFE_HOSTNAME` to the DNS hostname you use to access Terraform Enterprise.

     * [Mounted disk `kube.yaml` example](#mounted-disk)

  1. We recommend automating the Podman [requirements](/terraform/enterprise/flexible-deployments/install/podman/requirements)
  listed in this section. These must be in place before downloading and installing Terraform Enterprise.

## Download and install image

  1. Log in to the Terraform Enterprise container image registry, using `terraform`
  as the username, and your Hashicorp Terraform Enterprise license as the password:

  ```shell-session
  $ echo "<HASHICORP_LICENSE>" |  podman login --username terraform images.releases.hashicorp.com --password-stdin
  ```

  1. Pull the Terraform Enterprise image from the registry.

  ```shell-session
  $ podman pull images.releases.hashicorp.com/hashicorp/terraform-enterprise:<vYYYYMM-#>
  ```

## Run

  1. Create a Terraform Enterprise pod by running the following command:

  ```shell-session
  $ podman play kube /opt/fdo/kube.yaml
  ```

  1. In a separate terminal session, you can monitor the logs by running the following command:

  ```shell-session
  $ podman logs -f <container_name>
  ```

  1. Monitor the health of the application until it starts reporting healthy with the following command:

  ```shell-session
  $ podman exec <container_name> tfe-health-check-status
  ```

## Create initial admin user

[Provision your first administrative user](/terraform/enterprise/flexible-deployments/install/initial-admin-user) and start using Terraform Enterprise.

## Service Management

To learn more about managing the lifecycle of Podman pods, refer to [the Podman docs for more information about pods](https://podman.io/).
We have included possible options for managing a pod's lifecycle on a RHEL host for convenience.

### Systemd

Complete the following steps to create a `systemd` service that automatically starts your pod and its containers. We recommend using [Quadlet](https://github.com/containers/quadlet), which is an opinionated tool for running Podman containers, to deploy `systemd`. Quadlet generates a `systemd` service that manages the Terraform Enterprise pod and all containers, including the internal infrastructure container.

  1. Ensure the Terraform Enterprise pod is not running.

  1. Navigate to `/etc/containers/systemd/`. Define the service files in this directory.

  1. Create a Quadlet unit file for the Terraform Enterprise pod and container at `/etc/containers/systemd/terraform-enterprise.kube`:
  ```ini
    [Install]
    WantedBy=default.target
    [Service]
    Restart=always
    [Kube]
    Yaml=kube.yaml
  ```

  1. Copy the `kube.yaml` file to `/etc/containers/systemd/kube.yaml`:
  ```shell-session
  $ cp /opt/fdo/kube.yaml /etc/containers/systemd/kube.yaml
  ```

  1. Reload the `systemd` daemon and enable the service:
  ```shell-session
  $ systemctl reload-daemon
  $ systemctl start-service terraform-enterprise.service
  ```

  1. Check the status of your service:
  ```shell-session
  $ systemctl status terraform-enterprise.service

    ● terraform-enterprise.service
      Loaded: loaded (/etc/containers/systemd/terraform-enterprise.kube; generated)
      Active: active (running) since Sun 2024-02-25 21:15:55 UTC; 15min ago
    Main PID: 35893 (conmon)
        Tasks: 4 (limit: 404901)
      Memory: 5.2M
      CGroup: /system.slice/terraform-enterprise.service
              ├─35893 /usr/bin/conmon --api-version 1 -c 74f1271d9a481711950c62b509f126c3fdf8678a9d552c5ccc692eb6ed5cf4d1 -u 74f1271d9a481711950c62b509f126c3fdf8678a9d552c5ccc692eb6ed5cf4d1 ->
              ├─36028 /usr/sbin/dnsmasq -u root --conf-file=/run/containers/cni/dnsname/podman-default-kube-network/dnsmasq.conf
              ├─36030 /usr/bin/conmon --api-version 1 -c 973d3ff4f7ada5880a9947be4d90b3d556c7ce841037de34c7eaa07c044a3ec0 -u 973d3ff4f7ada5880a9947be4d90b3d556c7ce841037de34c7eaa07c044a3ec0 ->
              └─36083 /usr/bin/conmon --api-version 1 -c 435ea68e87dbef3c0965ffdfb9fe1fc36c5500a63eb00dc0fe2499aaa560a563 -u 435ea68e87dbef3c0965ffdfb9fe1fc36c5500a63eb00dc0fe2499aaa560a563 ->
  ```

## Kubernetes pod specification reference

### Mounted disk

This Kubernetes YAML deploys Terraform Enterprise in mounted disk mode as a pod composed of a Terraform Enterprise container.

This is not an exhaustive list of configuration options. Refer to [Configuration Reference](/terraform/enterprise/flexible-deployments/install/configuration)
for a list of all the configuration options.

This configuration uses a volume mount to store Terraform Enterprise application
data. The path you specify as the source of the volume mount must exist on the
instance running Terraform Enterprise. This path must be backed by durable
storage as provided by your cloud provider.

```yaml
---
apiVersion: "v1"
kind: "Pod"
metadata:
  labels:
    app: "terraform-enterprise"
  name: "terraform-enterprise"
spec:
  restartPolicy: "Never"
  containers:
  - env:
    - name: "TFE_OPERATIONAL_MODE"
      value: "disk"
    - name: "TFE_LICENSE"
      value: "<Hashicorp license>"
    - name: "TFE_HTTP_PORT"
      value: "8080"
    - name: "TFE_HTTPS_PORT"
      value: "8443"
    - name: "TFE_HOSTNAME"
      value: "<Hostname>"
    - name: "TFE_TLS_CERT_FILE"
      value: "/etc/ssl/private/terraform-enterprise/cert.pem"
    - name: "TFE_TLS_KEY_FILE"
      value: "/etc/ssl/private/terraform-enterprise/key.pem"
    - name: "TFE_TLS_CA_BUNDLE_FILE"
      value: "/etc/ssl/private/terraform-enterprise/bundle.pem"
    - name: "TFE_DISK_CACHE_VOLUME_NAME"
      value: "terraform-enterprise_terraform-enterprise-cache"
    - name: "TFE_LICENSE_REPORTING_OPT_OUT"
      value: "true"
    - name: "TFE_ENCRYPTION_PASSWORD"
      value: "<Encryption password>"
    image: "images.releases.hashicorp.com/hashicorp/terraform-enterprise:<vYYYYMM-#>"
    name: "terraform-enterprise"
    ports:
    - containerPort: 8080
      hostPort: 80
    - containerPort: 8443
      hostPort: 443
    - containerPort: 9090
      hostPort: 9090
    securityContext:
      capabilities:
        add:
        - "CAP_IPC_LOCK"
      readOnlyRootFilesystem: true
      seLinuxOptions:
        type: "spc_t"
    volumeMounts:
    - mountPath: "/etc/ssl/private/terraform-enterprise"
      name: "certs"
    - mountPath: "/var/log/terraform-enterprise"
      name: "log"
    - mountPath: "/run"
      name: "run"
    - mountPath: "/tmp"
      name: "tmp"
    - mountPath: "/var/lib/terraform-enterprise"
      name: "data"
    - mountPath: "/run/docker.sock"
      name: "docker-sock"
    - mountPath: "/var/cache/tfe-task-worker/terraform"
      name: "terraform-enterprise_terraform-enterprise-cache-pvc"
  volumes:
  - hostPath:
      path: "/opt/fdo/certs"
      type: "Directory"
    name: "certs"
  - emptyDir:
      medium: "Memory"
    name: "log"
  - emptyDir:
      medium: "Memory"
    name: "run"
  - emptyDir:
      medium: "Memory"
    name: "tmp"
  - hostPath:
      path: "/opt/fdo/data"
      type: "Directory"
    name: "data"
  - hostPath:
      path: "/var/run/docker.sock"
      type: "File"
    name: "docker-sock"
  - name: "terraform-enterprise_terraform-enterprise-cache-pvc"
    persistentVolumeClaim:
      claimName: "terraform-enterprise_terraform-enterprise-cache"
```

Commit message:

Guide users to the releases page and explicitly state that "latest" is not a valid tag in this case.

content/terraform-enterprise/v202402-1/docs/enterprise/flexible-deployments/install/podman/install.mdx, after:

---
page_title: Podman - Installation - Flexible Deployment Options - Terraform Enterprise
description: >-
  Learn how to install Terraform Enterprise Flexible Deployment Options
  with Podman.
---

# Podman installation

<Note title="Podman in beta">
    Note: Running Terraform Enterprise on Podman is still in beta. You should not deploy beta features in
    production environments! Provision a dedicated test environment before installing Terraform Enterprise on Podman.
    If you have questions or feedback about the Podman beta, contact your HashiCorp account representative.
</Note>

These instructions cover installing and running Terraform Enterprise on Podman on a RHEL 8 or RHEL 9 host using a
Kubernetes pod specification. This workflow sets up rootful Podman with a non-root user, meaning that the Podman
service runs as root while processes within the container run as non-root. Using a Kubernetes pod specification is our
recommended workflow. However, you can deploy Terraform Enterprise on Podman using Docker Compose or other tools that
integrate with Podman.

## Requirements

Before you begin, ensure you meet the [requirements](/terraform/enterprise/flexible-deployments/install/podman/requirements)
for installing Terraform Enterprise on Podman.

## Set up

  1. Connect to the instance where you want to run Terraform Enterprise.

  1. Create a new directory with a name of your choice. Our documentation uses `/opt/fdo` as our example directory.

  1. For mounted disk installations, navigate into the `/opt/fdo/` directory and create a `data` directory. Later,
  you will use this directory as a volume mount to store Terraform Enterprise application data.

  1. From the `/opt/fdo/` directory, create a `certs` directory and place your TLS certificate (`cert.pem`), TLS
  private key (`key.pem`), and CA certificates bundle (`bundle.pem`) inside. If you don’t have a CA certificates bundle,
  place your TLS certificate (`cert.pem`) inside `bundle.pem` instead. When finished, the `certs` directory should look like this:

  ```sh
  certs
  ├── cert.pem
  ├── key.pem
  └── bundle.pem
  ```

  1. Alongside the `certs` and optional `data` directories, create a `kube.yaml` file in the `/opt/fdo/` directory and populate
  it with your desired pod configuration. Be sure to replace values enclosed in `<>` with your installation's values. For
  example, set `TFE_HOSTNAME` to the DNS hostname you use to access Terraform Enterprise.

     * [Mounted disk `kube.yaml` example](#mounted-disk)

  1. We recommend automating the Podman [requirements](/terraform/enterprise/flexible-deployments/install/podman/requirements)
  listed in this section. These must be in place before downloading and installing Terraform Enterprise.

## Download and install image

  1. Log in to the Terraform Enterprise container image registry, using `terraform`
  as the username, and your Hashicorp Terraform Enterprise license as the password:

  ```shell-session
  $ echo "<HASHICORP_LICENSE>" |  podman login --username terraform images.releases.hashicorp.com --password-stdin
  ```

  1. Pull the Terraform Enterprise image from the registry.  Refer to [Terraform Enterprise Releases](https://developer.hashicorp.com/terraform/enterprise/releases) for a list of versions and replace `<vYYYYMM-#>` with the version you wish to install; `latest` is not a valid tag.  

  ```shell-session
  $ podman pull images.releases.hashicorp.com/hashicorp/terraform-enterprise:<vYYYYMM-#>
  ```

## Run

  1. Create a Terraform Enterprise pod by running the following command:

  ```shell-session
  $ podman play kube /opt/fdo/kube.yaml
  ```

  1. In a separate terminal session, you can monitor the logs by running the following command:

  ```shell-session
  $ podman logs -f <container_name>
  ```

  1. Monitor the health of the application until it starts reporting healthy with the following command:

  ```shell-session
  $ podman exec <container_name> tfe-health-check-status
  ```

## Create initial admin user

[Provision your first administrative user](/terraform/enterprise/flexible-deployments/install/initial-admin-user) and start using Terraform Enterprise.

## Service Management

To learn more about managing the lifecycle of Podman pods, refer to [the Podman docs for more information about pods](https://podman.io/).
We have included possible options for managing a pod's lifecycle on a RHEL host for convenience.

### Systemd

Complete the following steps to create a `systemd` service that automatically starts your pod and its containers. We recommend using [Quadlet](https://github.com/containers/quadlet), which is an opinionated tool for running Podman containers, to deploy `systemd`. Quadlet generates a `systemd` service that manages the Terraform Enterprise pod and all containers, including the internal infrastructure container.

  1. Ensure the Terraform Enterprise pod is not running.

  1. Navigate to `/etc/containers/systemd/`. Define the service files in this directory.

  1. Create a Quadlet unit file for the Terraform Enterprise pod and container at `/etc/containers/systemd/terraform-enterprise.kube`:
  ```ini
    [Install]
    WantedBy=default.target
    [Service]
    Restart=always
    [Kube]
    Yaml=kube.yaml
  ```

  1. Copy the `kube.yaml` file to `/etc/containers/systemd/kube.yaml`:
  ```shell-session
  $ cp /opt/fdo/kube.yaml /etc/containers/systemd/kube.yaml
  ```

  1. Reload the `systemd` daemon and enable the service:
  ```shell-session
  $ systemctl reload-daemon
  $ systemctl start-service terraform-enterprise.service
  ```

  1. Check the status of your service:
  ```shell-session
  $ systemctl status terraform-enterprise.service

    ● terraform-enterprise.service
      Loaded: loaded (/etc/containers/systemd/terraform-enterprise.kube; generated)
      Active: active (running) since Sun 2024-02-25 21:15:55 UTC; 15min ago
    Main PID: 35893 (conmon)
        Tasks: 4 (limit: 404901)
      Memory: 5.2M
      CGroup: /system.slice/terraform-enterprise.service
              ├─35893 /usr/bin/conmon --api-version 1 -c 74f1271d9a481711950c62b509f126c3fdf8678a9d552c5ccc692eb6ed5cf4d1 -u 74f1271d9a481711950c62b509f126c3fdf8678a9d552c5ccc692eb6ed5cf4d1 ->
              ├─36028 /usr/sbin/dnsmasq -u root --conf-file=/run/containers/cni/dnsname/podman-default-kube-network/dnsmasq.conf
              ├─36030 /usr/bin/conmon --api-version 1 -c 973d3ff4f7ada5880a9947be4d90b3d556c7ce841037de34c7eaa07c044a3ec0 -u 973d3ff4f7ada5880a9947be4d90b3d556c7ce841037de34c7eaa07c044a3ec0 ->
              └─36083 /usr/bin/conmon --api-version 1 -c 435ea68e87dbef3c0965ffdfb9fe1fc36c5500a63eb00dc0fe2499aaa560a563 -u 435ea68e87dbef3c0965ffdfb9fe1fc36c5500a63eb00dc0fe2499aaa560a563 ->
  ```

## Kubernetes pod specification reference

### Mounted disk

This Kubernetes YAML deploys Terraform Enterprise in mounted disk mode as a pod composed of a Terraform Enterprise container.

This is not an exhaustive list of configuration options. Refer to [Configuration Reference](/terraform/enterprise/flexible-deployments/install/configuration)
for a list of all the configuration options.

This configuration uses a volume mount to store Terraform Enterprise application
data. The path you specify as the source of the volume mount must exist on the
instance running Terraform Enterprise. This path must be backed by durable
storage as provided by your cloud provider.

```yaml
---
apiVersion: "v1"
kind: "Pod"
metadata:
  labels:
    app: "terraform-enterprise"
  name: "terraform-enterprise"
spec:
  restartPolicy: "Never"
  containers:
  - env:
    - name: "TFE_OPERATIONAL_MODE"
      value: "disk"
    - name: "TFE_LICENSE"
      value: "<Hashicorp license>"
    - name: "TFE_HTTP_PORT"
      value: "8080"
    - name: "TFE_HTTPS_PORT"
      value: "8443"
    - name: "TFE_HOSTNAME"
      value: "<Hostname>"
    - name: "TFE_TLS_CERT_FILE"
      value: "/etc/ssl/private/terraform-enterprise/cert.pem"
    - name: "TFE_TLS_KEY_FILE"
      value: "/etc/ssl/private/terraform-enterprise/key.pem"
    - name: "TFE_TLS_CA_BUNDLE_FILE"
      value: "/etc/ssl/private/terraform-enterprise/bundle.pem"
    - name: "TFE_DISK_CACHE_VOLUME_NAME"
      value: "terraform-enterprise_terraform-enterprise-cache"
    - name: "TFE_LICENSE_REPORTING_OPT_OUT"
      value: "true"
    - name: "TFE_ENCRYPTION_PASSWORD"
      value: "<Encryption password>"
    image: "images.releases.hashicorp.com/hashicorp/terraform-enterprise:<vYYYYMM-#>"
    name: "terraform-enterprise"
    ports:
    - containerPort: 8080
      hostPort: 80
    - containerPort: 8443
      hostPort: 443
    - containerPort: 9090
      hostPort: 9090
    securityContext:
      capabilities:
        add:
        - "CAP_IPC_LOCK"
      readOnlyRootFilesystem: true
      seLinuxOptions:
        type: "spc_t"
    volumeMounts:
    - mountPath: "/etc/ssl/private/terraform-enterprise"
      name: "certs"
    - mountPath: "/var/log/terraform-enterprise"
      name: "log"
    - mountPath: "/run"
      name: "run"
    - mountPath: "/tmp"
      name: "tmp"
    - mountPath: "/var/lib/terraform-enterprise"
      name: "data"
    - mountPath: "/run/docker.sock"
      name: "docker-sock"
    - mountPath: "/var/cache/tfe-task-worker/terraform"
      name: "terraform-enterprise_terraform-enterprise-cache-pvc"
  volumes:
  - hostPath:
      path: "/opt/fdo/certs"
      type: "Directory"
    name: "certs"
  - emptyDir:
      medium: "Memory"
    name: "log"
  - emptyDir:
      medium: "Memory"
    name: "run"
  - emptyDir:
      medium: "Memory"
    name: "tmp"
  - hostPath:
      path: "/opt/fdo/data"
      type: "Directory"
    name: "data"
  - hostPath:
      path: "/var/run/docker.sock"
      type: "File"
    name: "docker-sock"
  - name: "terraform-enterprise_terraform-enterprise-cache-pvc"
    persistentVolumeClaim:
      claimName: "terraform-enterprise_terraform-enterprise-cache"
```
