# Terraform Enterprise 2.0.2

- **App Deadline Date:** Friday, May 15, 2026
- **Release Branch:** release/2.0.x
- **Release Slack Channel:** #proj-tfe-releases

## Contributor Sign Off

Congratulations, if your name is on this list that means you contributed to this release. You must sign off on your
contributions by checking the box in front of your username. The number in front of your username is the number of pull
requests authored by you that are going into this release.

Please review the changelog entries for your contributions. Your changelog entries should be **feature-focused**, define
the **what** and **why**, and include any necessary information for customers. Each entry should make it clear why the
customer should care about the change. More information on
[how to write release notes can be found in confluence](https://hashicorp.atlassian.net/wiki/spaces/TFENG/pages/2369355816/How+to+Write+Release+Notes+for+TFE).

<!-- CUSTOMER_FACING_START_DELIMITER: The items in this section will be customer viewable -->

## Known Issues

1. When a Terraform Enterprise node enters a draining state, readiness checks return an HTTP 503 status. In some non‑Kubernetes cloud environments, checks for load balancers may interpret this as an unhealthy node and remove it from service, even though the node is intentionally draining and not accepting new requests. When draining nodes in your Terraform Enterprise installation, consider disabling readiness checks and instead use host-level health signals. For example, you can  enable Auto Scaling Group instance checks in AWS, disable auto-repair in AWS, or disable auto-healing policies in GCP. This issue does not affect Terraform Enterprise deployments on Kubernetes or OpenShift.

## Breaking Changes

## Deprecations

## Highlights

## Features

## Improvements

## Bug Fixes

1. Policy evaluations could fail to complete in some cases, particularly in workspaces with a large number of configured policies, causing runs to remain in progress. This issue has been resolved, and policy checks now execute and complete as expected. If you applied the workaround described in the support knowledge base article (https://www.ibm.com/support/pages/node/7272682), you can re‑enable policy checks and evaluations in your workspaces.
1. Product usage reports were not created successfully, which prevented usage reports from receiving up‑to‑date data. This issue has been resolved.
1. The Diagnostics API returned an HTTP 503 status for the task worker due to insufficient Kubernetes API permissions required by the diagnostics check. This resulted in a false unhealthy status being shown in the Terraform Enterprise. This issue has been resolved, and the Diagnostics API now reflects the actual availability of the task worker.
1. Explorer now includes remote (non-registry) modules, such as those sourced from GitHub.

## Security

<!-- CUSTOMER_FACING_STOP_DELIMITER: Everything below this line will not be viewable by customers. -->

### Generated Changelog

The changelog below was generated by `scripts/changelog.rb`. It includes PRs merged from each repository in `app_repos.yaml`. The purpose of this generated changelog is to serve as starting place for constructing the customer facing changelog above.

#### Possible Customer Impacting Changes

These PRs included a changelog line the PR body. This changelog line has been used as the message below.

1. Explorer now includes remote (non-registry) modules, such as those sourced from github. -- **@hc-tfe-release-bot** [atlas#28542](https://github.com/hashicorp/atlas/pull/28542)
1. Fixes an issue with the TFE usage report worker where billable_rum_opt_in was being incorrectly overwritten. -- **@hc-tfe-release-bot** [atlas#28738](https://github.com/hashicorp/atlas/pull/28738)
1. Terraform Enterprise now correctly creates product usage reports, in versions 2.0.0 and 2.0.1 TFE would fail to create these reports, leading to usage reports no longer receiving up to date data -- **@JenGoldstrich** [terraform-enterprise#4410](https://github.com/hashicorp/terraform-enterprise/pull/4410)
1. Terraform Enterprise now gracefully handles large individual log lines greater than 64KB. In Terraform Enterprise 2.0.0 we switched to a new process manager, when a log line greater than 64KB created, Terraform Enterprise would ungracefully hang, leading to Atlas health check failures, and stuck Terraform runs. This was especially prevalent when using sentinel policies with large amounts of resources or policies. Now Terraform Enterprise will truncate individual log lines which exceed 64 KB. -- **@JenGoldstrich** [terraform-enterprise#4438](https://github.com/hashicorp/terraform-enterprise/pull/4438)
1. Terraform Enterprise now gracefully handles large individual log lines greater than 64KB.  Starting in 2.0.0 Terraform Enterprise would ungracefully hang when receiving 64 KB+ individual lines of logs, leading to Atlas health check failures, and stuck Terraform runs. This was especially prevalent when using sentinel policies with large amounts of resources or policies. Terraform Enterprise now will properly output these long log lines as it did prior to 2.0.0 -- **@hc-tfe-release-bot** [terraform-enterprise#4444](https://github.com/hashicorp/terraform-enterprise/pull/4444)
1. no changelog -- **@KaushikiAnand** [terraform-enterprise#4446](https://github.com/hashicorp/terraform-enterprise/pull/4446)

#### Possible Non Customer Facing Changes

These PRs did not include a changelog line in the PR body. The PR title has been used as the message below.

1. Backport of Fix for failing smoke tests into release/2.0.x -- **@hc-tfe-release-bot** [atlas#28491](https://github.com/hashicorp/atlas/pull/28491)
1. [TF-36795] Backport k8s e2es and the whole world (e2es) -- **@JenGoldstrich** [terraform-enterprise#4388](https://github.com/hashicorp/terraform-enterprise/pull/4388)
1. Backport of DATABASE_LOCK_TIMEOUT in atlas into release/2.0.x -- **@hc-tfe-release-bot** [terraform-enterprise#4426](https://github.com/hashicorp/terraform-enterprise/pull/4426)
1. Backport of Revert "DATABASE_LOCK_TIMEOUT in atlas (#4420)" into release/2.0.x -- **@hc-tfe-release-bot** [terraform-enterprise#4437](https://github.com/hashicorp/terraform-enterprise/pull/4437)
1. Backport of Release 2.0.2 Preparation for release 2.0.2 completed  into release/2.0.x -- **@hc-tfe-release-bot** [terraform-enterprise#4443](https://github.com/hashicorp/terraform-enterprise/pull/4443)
1. Backport of TF-34280: Trigger repository_dispatch for release/* and ptfe-releases/* branches into release/2.0.x -- **@hc-tfe-release-bot** [tfe-metrics#289](https://github.com/hashicorp/tfe-metrics/pull/289)
1. Backport of empty commit -test update tag workflow into release/2.0.x -- **@hc-tfe-release-bot** [tfe-metrics#293](https://github.com/hashicorp/tfe-metrics/pull/293)
1. Backport of IPL-9489: fix Kubernetes diagnostics 503 on Helm chart deployments into release/2.0.x -- **@hc-tfe-release-bot** [tfe-task-worker#590](https://github.com/hashicorp/tfe-task-worker/pull/590)

