content/vault/v1.21.x/content/docs/secrets/ldap/index.mdx, before:

---
layout: docs
page_title: LDAP secrets engine
description: >-
  Create and manage LDAP credentials with the LDAP secret engine plugin.
---

# LDAP secrets engine overview

Manage static and dynamic LDAP credentials and integrate with services that
implement the LDAP v3 protocol, including OpenLDAP, Active Directory, and IBM
Resource Access Control Facility (RACF).

Current version | Edition   | Runtime  | Code source
--------------- | --------- | -------- | -----------
0.17.0          | Community | Built-in | [`hashicorp/vault-plugin-secrets-openldap`](https://github.com/hashicorp/vault-plugin-secrets-openldap)


## Feature summary

- Use OpenLDAP, RACF, and Active Directory schemas.
- Use traditional 8-character passwords and modern, longer password phrases.
- Check-out service accounts with automatic password rotation.
- Map static Vault roles to LDAP credentials.
- Use dynamic LDAP credentials and manage LDAP user accounts through LDIF.
- Manually rotate LDAP passwords and root credentials.
- Automatically rotate LDAP passwords for static credentials.
- Rotate root credentials on a predefined schedule. <EnterpriseAlert inline="true" />
- Organize related credentials with hierarchical paths.


## Service account libraries ((#library))

Use the service account functionality to create a library of service accounts
that users and machines can check out and use as needed. Vault automatically
rotates the associated password when the client checks the service account back
in.

Clients can voluntarily check in service accounts at any time and Vault
automatically returns the account to the library when the lending period ("ttl")
ends.

The service account check-out functionality works with all the LDAP schemas
supported by the plugin.


## Credential rotation ((#rotate))

For static roles, Vault automatically rotates passwords based on the configured
rotation period. When clients request credentials for a static role, Vault
includes the time before the next rotation (`ttl`) in the response.

The plugin can alsp rotate root credential keys configured directly within the
mount. Rotating to a Vault-generated key makes the key value inaccessible to the
operator and ensures only Vault can operate as a root user to manipulate dynamic
and static credentials.

## Logging

Logging for manual rotation records the same information as other rotation
logging with an additional reference that the rotation happened `on user request`.

@include 'rotation-manager-logging.mdx'


As with the rotation manager, Vault logs rotations with reference to the
name of the role and error information if the rotation failed. The logs also
indicate if the rotation was part of a periodic function.



## Hierarchical paths ((#ldap-paths))

The LDAP secrets plugin lets you define role and set names that contain an
arbitrary number of forward slashes. Names with forward slashes define
hierarchical path structures.

For example, you can configure two static roles with the names `org/secure` and
`org/platform/dev`.

Names with hierarchical paths let you use the plugin API to query the available
roles at a specific path with arbitrary depth. Names that end with a forward
slash indicate that sub-paths reside under that path.

For example, to list all static roles under the `org/` path, you can call the
`{mount_path}/static-role/{role_name}/` endpoint with the `org` path segment:

```shell-session
$ vault list ldap/static-role/org/

Keys
----
platform/
secure
```

Since [Vault policies](/vault/docs/concepts/policies) are also path-based,
hierarchical names also let you define policies that map 1-1 to LDAP secrets
engine roles and set paths.


<Tabs>

<Tab heading="How-to guides" group="how-to">

Step-by-step instructions:

- [Set up the `ldap` plugin for OpenLDAP or Active Directory](/vault/docs/secrets/ldap/setup)
- [Use the `ldap` plugin with IBM RACF](/vault/docs/secrets/ldap/ibm-racf)
- [Use dynamic credentials](/vault/docs/secrets/ldap/dynamic-credentials)
- [Check out service accounts](/vault/docs/secrets/ldap/service-account-checkout)

</Tab>

<Tab heading="Cookbook" group="cook">

Short explanations for common problems:

- Manage root credentials
  - [Manually rotate root credentials](/vault/docs/secrets/ldap/cookbook/root-credentials/rotate-root-creds)
  - [Schedule root credential rotation](/vault/docs/secrets/ldap/cookbook/root-credentials/schedule-based-rotation)
  - [Disable root credential rotation](/vault/docs/secrets/ldap/cookbook/root-credentials/disable-root-rotation)
- Manage static credentials:
  - [Create static roles](/vault/docs/secrets/ldap/cookbook/static-credentials/create-static-roles)
  - [Manually rotate static roles](/vault/docs/secrets/ldap/cookbook/static-credentials/rotate-static-roles)
  - [Delete static roles](/vault/docs/secrets/ldap/cookbook/static-credentials/delete-static-roles)
- Manage a service account library:
  - [Check out a service account](/vault/docs/secrets/ldap/cookbook/account-library/checkout)
  - [Check in a service account](/vault/docs/secrets/ldap/cookbook/account-library/checkin)
  - [Extend a service account lease](/vault/docs/secrets/ldap/cookbook/account-library/extend-lease)
  - [Revoke a service account](/vault/docs/secrets/ldap/cookbook/account-library/revoke-lease)
- [Hash policy for LDAP passwords](/vault/docs/secrets/ldap/cookbook/hash-passwords)

</Tab>


<Tab heading="Reference" group="ref">

Technical references:

- [LDAP plugin API docs](/vault/api-docs/secret/ldap)

</Tab>

<Tab heading="Tutorials" group="tutorial">

Detailed tutorials:

- [Manage LDAP credentials with Vault](/vault/tutorials/secrets-management/openldap).
- [Implement identity entities and groups](/vault/tutorials/auth-methods/identity)

</Tab>

</Tabs>

Commit message:

Updating LDAP Secrets Engine Docs (#1524)
* adding information about the default password behavior for ldap secrets engine

* quick tweaks to wording

* Adding clarification on the LDAP secrets engine default password behavior

Co-authored-by: Sarah Chavis <62406755+schavis@users.noreply.github.com>

---------

Co-authored-by: Sarah Chavis <62406755+schavis@users.noreply.github.com>

content/vault/v1.21.x/content/docs/secrets/ldap/index.mdx, after:

---
layout: docs
page_title: LDAP secrets engine
description: >-
  Create and manage LDAP credentials with the LDAP secret engine plugin.
---

# LDAP secrets engine overview

Manage static and dynamic LDAP credentials and integrate with services that
implement the LDAP v3 protocol, including OpenLDAP, Active Directory, and IBM
Resource Access Control Facility (RACF).

Current version | Edition   | Runtime  | Code source
--------------- | --------- | -------- | -----------
0.17.0          | Community | Built-in | [`hashicorp/vault-plugin-secrets-openldap`](https://github.com/hashicorp/vault-plugin-secrets-openldap)


## Feature summary

- Use OpenLDAP, RACF, and Active Directory schemas.
- Use traditional 8-character passwords and modern, longer password phrases.
- Check-out service accounts with automatic password rotation.
- Map static Vault roles to LDAP credentials.
- Use dynamic LDAP credentials and manage LDAP user accounts through LDIF.
- Manually rotate LDAP passwords and root credentials.
- Automatically rotate LDAP passwords for static credentials.
- Rotate root credentials on a predefined schedule. <EnterpriseAlert inline="true" />
- Organize related credentials with hierarchical paths.


## Service account libraries ((#library))

Use the service account functionality to create a library of service accounts
that users and machines can check out and use as needed. Vault automatically
rotates the associated password when the client checks the service account back
in.

Clients can voluntarily check in service accounts at any time and Vault
automatically returns the account to the library when the lending period ("ttl")
ends.

The service account check-out functionality works with all the LDAP schemas
supported by the plugin.


## Credential rotation ((#rotate))

For static roles, Vault automatically rotates passwords based on the configured
rotation period. When clients request credentials for a static role, Vault
includes the time before the next rotation (`ttl`) in the response.

The default password configuration does not include special characters. If you
do not configure a password policy on the secrets engine, the plugin only
generates 64-character passwords consisting of alphanumeric characters
(A-Z, a-z, 0-9).

The plugin can also rotate root credential keys configured directly within the
mount. Rotating to a Vault-generated key makes the key value inaccessible to the
operator and ensures only Vault can operate as a root user to manipulate dynamic
and static credentials.

## Logging

Logging for manual rotation records the same information as other rotation
logging with an additional reference that the rotation happened `on user request`.

@include 'rotation-manager-logging.mdx'


As with the rotation manager, Vault logs rotations with reference to the
name of the role and error information if the rotation failed. The logs also
indicate if the rotation was part of a periodic function.



## Hierarchical paths ((#ldap-paths))

The LDAP secrets plugin lets you define role and set names that contain an
arbitrary number of forward slashes. Names with forward slashes define
hierarchical path structures.

For example, you can configure two static roles with the names `org/secure` and
`org/platform/dev`.

Names with hierarchical paths let you use the plugin API to query the available
roles at a specific path with arbitrary depth. Names that end with a forward
slash indicate that sub-paths reside under that path.

For example, to list all static roles under the `org/` path, you can call the
`{mount_path}/static-role/{role_name}/` endpoint with the `org` path segment:

```shell-session
$ vault list ldap/static-role/org/

Keys
----
platform/
secure
```

Since [Vault policies](/vault/docs/concepts/policies) are also path-based,
hierarchical names also let you define policies that map 1-1 to LDAP secrets
engine roles and set paths.


<Tabs>

<Tab heading="How-to guides" group="how-to">

Step-by-step instructions:

- [Set up the `ldap` plugin for OpenLDAP or Active Directory](/vault/docs/secrets/ldap/setup)
- [Use the `ldap` plugin with IBM RACF](/vault/docs/secrets/ldap/ibm-racf)
- [Use dynamic credentials](/vault/docs/secrets/ldap/dynamic-credentials)
- [Check out service accounts](/vault/docs/secrets/ldap/service-account-checkout)

</Tab>

<Tab heading="Cookbook" group="cook">

Short explanations for common problems:

- Manage root credentials
  - [Manually rotate root credentials](/vault/docs/secrets/ldap/cookbook/root-credentials/rotate-root-creds)
  - [Schedule root credential rotation](/vault/docs/secrets/ldap/cookbook/root-credentials/schedule-based-rotation)
  - [Disable root credential rotation](/vault/docs/secrets/ldap/cookbook/root-credentials/disable-root-rotation)
- Manage static credentials:
  - [Create static roles](/vault/docs/secrets/ldap/cookbook/static-credentials/create-static-roles)
  - [Manually rotate static roles](/vault/docs/secrets/ldap/cookbook/static-credentials/rotate-static-roles)
  - [Delete static roles](/vault/docs/secrets/ldap/cookbook/static-credentials/delete-static-roles)
- Manage a service account library:
  - [Check out a service account](/vault/docs/secrets/ldap/cookbook/account-library/checkout)
  - [Check in a service account](/vault/docs/secrets/ldap/cookbook/account-library/checkin)
  - [Extend a service account lease](/vault/docs/secrets/ldap/cookbook/account-library/extend-lease)
  - [Revoke a service account](/vault/docs/secrets/ldap/cookbook/account-library/revoke-lease)
- [Hash policy for LDAP passwords](/vault/docs/secrets/ldap/cookbook/hash-passwords)

</Tab>


<Tab heading="Reference" group="ref">

Technical references:

- [LDAP plugin API docs](/vault/api-docs/secret/ldap)

</Tab>

<Tab heading="Tutorials" group="tutorial">

Detailed tutorials:

- [Manage LDAP credentials with Vault](/vault/tutorials/secrets-management/openldap).
- [Implement identity entities and groups](/vault/tutorials/auth-methods/identity)

</Tab>

</Tabs>
