content/nomad/v1.8.x/content/docs/concepts/scheduling/placement.mdx, before:

---
layout: docs
page_title: Placement
description: Learn about how placements are computed in Nomad.
---

# Placement

When the Nomad scheduler receives a job registration request, it needs to
determine which clients will run allocations for the job.

This process is called allocation placement and can be important to understand
it to help achieve important goals for your applications, such as high
availability and resilience.

By default, all nodes are considered for placements but this process can be
adjusted via agent and job configuration.

There are several options that can be used depending on the desired outcome.

### Affinities and Constraints

Affinities and constraints allow users to define soft or hard requirements for
their jobs. The [`affinity`][job_affinity] block specifies a soft requirement
on certain node properties, meaning allocations for the job have a preference
for some nodes, but may be placed elsewhere if the rules can't be matched,
while the [`constraint`][job_constraint] block creates hard requirements and
allocations can only be placed in nodes that match these rules. Job placement
fails if a constraint cannot be satisfied.

These rules can reference intrinsic node characteristics, which are called
[node attributes][] and are automatically detected by Nomad, static values
defined in the agent configuration file by cluster administrators, or dynamic
values defined after the agent starts.

One restriction of using affinities and constraints is that they only express
relationships from jobs to nodes, so it is not possible to use them to restrict
a node to only receive allocations for specific jobs.

Use affinities and constraints when some jobs have certain node preferences or
requirements but it is acceptable to have other jobs sharing the same nodes.

The sections below describe the node values that can be configured and used in
job affinity and constraint rules.

#### Node Class

Node class is an arbitrary value that can be used to group nodes based on some
characteristics, like the instance size or the presence of fast hard drives,
and is specified in the client configuration file using the
[`node_class`][config_client_node_class] parameter.

#### Dynamic and Static Node Metadata

Node metadata are arbitrary key-value mappings specified either in the client
configuration file using the [`meta`][config_client_meta] parameter or
dynamically via the [`nomad node meta`][cli_node_meta] command and the
[`/v1/client/metadata`][api_client_metadata] API endpoint.

There are no preconceived use cases for metadata values, and each team may
choose to use them in different ways. Some examples of static metadata include
resource ownership, such as `owner = "team-qa"`, or fine-grained locality,
`rack = "3"`. Dynamic metadata may be used to track runtime information, such
as jobs running in a given client.

### Datacenter

Datacenters represent a geographical location in a region that can be used for
fault tolerance and infrastructure isolation.

It is defined in the agent configuration file using the
[`datacenter`][config_datacenter] parameter and, unlike affinities and
constraints, datacenters are opt-in at the job level, meaning that a job only
places allocations in the datacenters it uses, and, more importantly, only jobs
in a given datacenter are allowed to place allocations in those nodes.

Given the strong connotation of a geographical location, use datacenters to
represent where a node resides rather than its intended use. The
[`spread`][job_spread] block can help achieve fault tolerance across
datacenters.

### Node Pool

Node pools allow grouping nodes that can be targeted by jobs to achieve
workload isolation.

Similarly to datacenters, node pools are configured in an agent configuration
file using the [`node_pool`][config_client_node_pool] attribute, and are opt-in
on jobs, allowing restricted use of certain nodes by specific jobs without
extra configuration.

But unlike datacenters, node pools don't have a preconceived notion and can be
used for several use cases, such as segmenting infrastructure per environment
(development, staging, production), by department (engineering, finance,
support), or by functionality (databases, ingress proxy, applications).

Node pools are also a first-class concept and can hold additional [metadata and
configuration][spec_node_pool].

Use node pools when there is a need to restrict and reserve certain nodes for
specific workloads, or when you need to adjust specific [scheduler
configuration][spec_node_pool_sched_config] values.

Nomad Enterprise also allows associating a node pool to a namespace to
facilitate managing the relationships between jobs, namespaces, and node pools.

Refer to the [Node Pools][concept_np] concept page for more information.


[api_client_metadata]: /nomad/api-docs/client#update-node-metadata
[cli_node_meta]: /nomad/docs/commands/node/meta
[concept_np]: /nomad/docs/concepts/node-pools
[config_client_meta]: /nomad/docs/configuration/client#meta
[config_client_node_class]: /nomad/docs/configuration/client#node_class
[config_client_node_pool]: /nomad/docs/configuration/client#node_pool
[config_datacenter]: /nomad/docs/configuration#datacenter
[job_affinity]: /nomad/docs/job-specification/affinity
[job_constraint]: /nomad/docs/job-specification/constraint
[job_spread]: /nomad/docs/job-specification/spread
[node attributes]: /nomad/docs/runtime/interpolation#node-attributes
[spec_node_pool]: /nomad/docs/other-specifications/node-pool
[spec_node_pool_sched_config]: /nomad/docs/other-specifications/node-pool#scheduler_config-parameters

Commit message:

fix: correct nomad docs v1.7.x through v1.9.x

content/nomad/v1.8.x/content/docs/concepts/scheduling/placement.mdx, after:

---
layout: docs
page_title: Placement
description: Learn about how placements are computed in Nomad.
---

# Placement

When the Nomad scheduler receives a job registration request, it needs to
determine which clients will run allocations for the job.

This process is called allocation placement and can be important to understand
it to help achieve important goals for your applications, such as high
availability and resilience.

By default, all nodes are considered for placements but this process can be
adjusted via agent and job configuration.

There are several options that can be used depending on the desired outcome.

### Affinities and Constraints

Affinities and constraints allow users to define soft or hard requirements for
their jobs. The [`affinity`][job_affinity] block specifies a soft requirement
on certain node properties, meaning allocations for the job have a preference
for some nodes, but may be placed elsewhere if the rules can't be matched,
while the [`constraint`][job_constraint] block creates hard requirements and
allocations can only be placed in nodes that match these rules. Job placement
fails if a constraint cannot be satisfied.

These rules can reference intrinsic node characteristics, which are called
[node attributes][] and are automatically detected by Nomad, static values
defined in the agent configuration file by cluster administrators, or dynamic
values defined after the agent starts.

One restriction of using affinities and constraints is that they only express
relationships from jobs to nodes, so it is not possible to use them to restrict
a node to only receive allocations for specific jobs.

Use affinities and constraints when some jobs have certain node preferences or
requirements but it is acceptable to have other jobs sharing the same nodes.

The sections below describe the node values that can be configured and used in
job affinity and constraint rules.

#### Node Class

Node class is an arbitrary value that can be used to group nodes based on some
characteristics, like the instance size or the presence of fast hard drives,
and is specified in the client configuration file using the
[`node_class`][config_client_node_class] parameter.

#### Dynamic and Static Node Metadata

Node metadata are arbitrary key-value mappings specified either in the client
configuration file using the [`meta`][config_client_meta] parameter or
dynamically via the [`nomad node meta`][cli_node_meta] command and the
[`/v1/client/metadata`][api_client_metadata] API endpoint.

There are no preconceived use cases for metadata values, and each team may
choose to use them in different ways. Some examples of static metadata include
resource ownership, such as `owner = "team-qa"`, or fine-grained locality,
`rack = "3"`. Dynamic metadata may be used to track runtime information, such
as jobs running in a given client.

### Datacenter

Datacenters represent a geographical location in a region that can be used for
fault tolerance and infrastructure isolation.

It is defined in the agent configuration file using the
[`datacenter`][config_datacenter] parameter and, unlike affinities and
constraints, datacenters are opt-in at the job level, meaning that a job only
places allocations in the datacenters it uses, and, more importantly, only jobs
in a given datacenter are allowed to place allocations in those nodes.

Given the strong connotation of a geographical location, use datacenters to
represent where a node resides rather than its intended use. The
[`spread`][job_spread] block can help achieve fault tolerance across
datacenters.

### Node Pool

Node pools allow grouping nodes that can be targeted by jobs to achieve
workload isolation.

Similarly to datacenters, node pools are configured in an agent configuration
file using the [`node_pool`][config_client_node_pool] attribute, and are opt-in
on jobs, allowing restricted use of certain nodes by specific jobs without
extra configuration.

But unlike datacenters, node pools don't have a preconceived notion and can be
used for several use cases, such as segmenting infrastructure per environment
(development, staging, production), by department (engineering, finance,
support), or by functionality (databases, ingress proxy, applications).

Node pools are also a first-class concept and can hold additional [metadata and
configuration][spec_node_pool].

Use node pools when there is a need to restrict and reserve certain nodes for
specific workloads, or when you need to adjust specific [scheduler
configuration][spec_node_pool_sched_config] values.

Nomad Enterprise also allows associating a node pool to a namespace to
facilitate managing the relationships between jobs, namespaces, and node pools.

Refer to the [Node Pools][concept_np] concept page for more information.

## Understanding Evaluation Status

When a job cannot be immediately placed, Nomad creates a chain of evaluations
to manage placement. First, your initial evaluation may be marked complete even if
placement fails. Then Nomad creates a blocked evaluation to retry placement when
resources become available. Your job remains pending until Nomad places all allocations.

For example, if your job has specific constraints that are not available, you
get an initial completed evaluation and a blocked evaluation. Nomad tracks
ongoing placement attempts until a node that fits your constraints is available.

To troubleshoot placement issues, use `nomad eval status <eval_id>`. Check the output
for placement failures and linked evaluations.

[api_client_metadata]: /nomad/api-docs/client#update-node-metadata
[cli_node_meta]: /nomad/commands/node/meta
[concept_np]: /nomad/docs/concepts/node-pools
[config_client_meta]: /nomad/docs/configuration/client#meta
[config_client_node_class]: /nomad/docs/configuration/client#node_class
[config_client_node_pool]: /nomad/docs/configuration/client#node_pool
[config_datacenter]: /nomad/docs/configuration#datacenter
[job_affinity]: /nomad/docs/job-specification/affinity
[job_constraint]: /nomad/docs/job-specification/constraint
[job_spread]: /nomad/docs/job-specification/spread
[node attributes]: /nomad/docs/runtime/interpolation#node-attributes
[spec_node_pool]: /nomad/docs/other-specifications/node-pool
[spec_node_pool_sched_config]: /nomad/docs/other-specifications/node-pool#scheduler_config-parameters
