content/terraform/v1.14.x (rc)/docs/language/invoke-actions.mdx, before:

---
page_title: Invoke an action
description: Learn how to invoke actions defined in Terraform configuration language to perform day-2 operations, such as triggering Ansible playbooks and Lambda functions.
---

# Invoke an action

Actions are preset operations built into providers that let Terraform perform day-two operations. Invoke actions to trigger automations outside of Terraform, such as Ansible playbooks and Lambda jobs. Actions do not affect resource state. 

@include 'beta.mdx'

## Overview

Declare an `action` block in your Terraform configuration and apply your configuration or use the Terraform CLI to invoke the action. You can configure actions that aren't directly associated with a resource. These actions don't change the state of resources managed by Terraform.

## Requirements

Provider authors implement actions for them to be available. To check for actions available in your provider, refer to the provider documentation. Actions are available in the following providers on the Terraform Registry:

- [aws](https://registry.terraform.io/providers/hashicorp/aws/latest) 
- [azurerm](https://registry.terraform.io/providers/hashicorp/azurerm/latest)
 
### HCP Terraform 

To monitor actions in HCP Terraform, you must configure a connection to HCP Terraform in your Terraform configuration. Refer to [Connect to HCP Terraform](/terraform/cli/cloud/settings) for instructions.
 
## Configure an action

Add an `action` block to your Terraform configuration and specify the type and a label as inline arguments. The type of action depends on your provider. Refer to your provider documentation for details about available actions.

The following example declares an `aws_lambda_invoke` action labeled `example`:

```hcl
action "aws_lambda_invoke" "example" {
  # ...
}
```

### Configure provider arguments

Use the `config` block to configure provider arguments. The `config` block may contain arguments or other blocks. Refer to your provider documentation for more information. 

The following example adds an `aws_lambda_invoke` action that references `"my_function"` defined elsewhere in the configuration and passes a JSON payload into the function. 

```hcl
action "aws_lambda_invoke" "example" {
  config {
    function_name = "my_function"
    payload = jsonencode({
      key1 = "value1"
      key2 = "value2"
    })
  }
}
```

Refer to the [AWS provider documentation](https://registry.terraform.io/providers/hashicorp/aws/6.14.1/docs/resources/lambda_function#basic-function-with-nodejs) for information about provisioning AWS Lambda functions.

### Configure Terraform meta-arguments

You can use some Terraform meta-argments in `action` blocks. Meta-arguments are built into Terraform and control how Terraform creates resources. Refer to [Meta-arguments](/terraform/language/meta-arguments) for more information.

In the following example, Terraform creates three instances of the action because the `count` meta-argument is set to `3`. It also uses the provider configuration reference with `aws.alias` per the `provider` meta-argument. Refer to the [`action` block reference](/terraform/language/block/action) for information about all meta-arguments supported in the `action` block. 


```hcl
action "aws_lambda_invoke" "example" {
  count = 3 
  provider = aws.alias
  config {
    function_name = "my_function"
    payload = jsonencode({
      key1 = "value1"
      key2 = "value2"
    })
  }
}
```

## Invoke the action

You can use the Terraform CLI to run an action or configure a `resource` block to trigger the action during an apply operation.

### Invoke an action from the CLI

When you invoke an action using the CLI, Terraform runs only the action and excludes all other configurations. 

Add the `-invoke` flag and specify the address of an action when running the `terraform plan` or `terraform apply` command. 

The following example creates a plan for invoking the `aws_lambda_invoke.example` action:

```shell-session
$ terraform plan -invoke=action.aws_lambda_invoke.example
```

Refer to the [`terraform plan` command](/terraform/cli/commands/plan) documentation for more information about creating plans.

The following example runs the `aws_lambda_invoke.example` action:

```shell-session
$ terraform apply -invoke=action.aws_lambda_invoke.example
```

Refer to the [`terraform apply` command](/terraform/cli/commands/apply) documentation for more information about applying configurations.

### Trigger an action when applying a configuration

To trigger an action on resource lifecycle events, such as creating a resource, configure an `action_trigger` block and specify the action to run and the events that trigger the action. The `action_trigger` block is a member of the `lifecycle` block nested in a `resource` block. Refer to the [`action_trigger` documentation](/terraform/language/block/resource#action_trigger) for details about configuring the block.

In the following example, Terraform invokes the `action.aws_lambda_invoke.example` action after creating the `aws_lambda_function.example` resource. Terraform also invokes the action during a `terraform apply` operation if the `resource` block configuration changes.

```hcl
resource "aws_lambda_function" "example" {
  # resource config 

  lifecycle {
    action_trigger {
      events = [after_create, after_update]
      actions = [action.aws_lambda_invoke.example]
    }
  }
}
```

Terraform invokes the action when you run `terraform apply` and are creating the resource for the first time. This is because one of the `event` triggers is `after_create`. 

Because the  `event` argument includes `after_update`, Terraform also updates the resource on `terraform apply`, even without changes to the configuration, when it detects drift in the resource. 

## View actions in HCP Terraform

If your workspace is connected to your HCP Terraform organization, you can monitor action runs in HCP Terraform. Refer to [Action runs](/terraform/cloud-docs/run/manage#action-runs) in the HCP Terraform documentation for more information.

Commit message:

remove beta callouts, update links for actions GA

content/terraform/v1.14.x (rc)/docs/language/invoke-actions.mdx, after:

---
page_title: Invoke an action
description: Learn how to invoke actions defined in Terraform configuration language to perform day-2 operations, such as triggering Ansible playbooks and Lambda functions.
---

# Invoke an action

Actions are preset operations built into providers that let Terraform perform day-two operations. Invoke actions to trigger automations outside of Terraform, such as Ansible playbooks and Lambda jobs. Actions do not affect resource state. 

## Overview

Declare an `action` block in your Terraform configuration and apply your configuration or use the Terraform CLI to invoke the action. You can configure actions that aren't directly associated with a resource. These actions don't change the state of resources managed by Terraform.

## Requirements

Provider develoeprs must implement actions for them to be available. Refer to the provider documentation for information about actions that may be available in your provider. 

### HCP Terraform 

To monitor actions in HCP Terraform, you must configure a connection to HCP Terraform in your Terraform configuration. Refer to [Connect to HCP Terraform](/terraform/cli/cloud/settings) for instructions.
 
## Configure an action

Add an `action` block to your Terraform configuration and specify the type and a label as inline arguments. The type of action depends on your provider. Refer to your provider documentation for details about available actions.

The following example declares an `aws_lambda_invoke` action labeled `example`:

```hcl
action "aws_lambda_invoke" "example" {
  # ...
}
```

### Configure provider arguments

Use the `config` block to configure provider arguments. The `config` block may contain arguments or other blocks. Refer to your provider documentation for more information. 

The following example adds an `aws_lambda_invoke` action that references `"my_function"` defined elsewhere in the configuration and passes a JSON payload into the function. 

```hcl
action "aws_lambda_invoke" "example" {
  config {
    function_name = "my_function"
    payload = jsonencode({
      key1 = "value1"
      key2 = "value2"
    })
  }
}
```

Refer to the [AWS provider documentation](https://registry.terraform.io/providers/hashicorp/aws/6.14.1/docs/resources/lambda_function#basic-function-with-nodejs) for information about provisioning AWS Lambda functions.

### Configure Terraform meta-arguments

You can use some Terraform meta-argments in `action` blocks. Meta-arguments are built into Terraform and control how Terraform creates resources. Refer to [Meta-arguments](/terraform/language/meta-arguments) for more information.

In the following example, Terraform creates three instances of the action because the `count` meta-argument is set to `3`. It also uses the provider configuration reference with `aws.alias` per the `provider` meta-argument. Refer to the [`action` block reference](/terraform/language/block/action) for information about all meta-arguments supported in the `action` block. 


```hcl
action "aws_lambda_invoke" "example" {
  count = 3 
  provider = aws.alias
  config {
    function_name = "my_function"
    payload = jsonencode({
      key1 = "value1"
      key2 = "value2"
    })
  }
}
```

## Invoke the action

You can use the Terraform CLI to run an action or configure a `resource` block to trigger the action during an apply operation.

### Invoke an action from the CLI

When you invoke an action using the CLI, Terraform runs only the action and excludes all other configurations. 

Add the `-invoke` flag and specify the address of an action when running the `terraform plan` or `terraform apply` command. 

The following example creates a plan for invoking the `aws_lambda_invoke.example` action:

```shell-session
$ terraform plan -invoke=action.aws_lambda_invoke.example
```

Refer to the [`terraform plan` command](/terraform/cli/commands/plan) documentation for more information about creating plans.

The following example runs the `aws_lambda_invoke.example` action:

```shell-session
$ terraform apply -invoke=action.aws_lambda_invoke.example
```

Refer to the [`terraform apply` command](/terraform/cli/commands/apply) documentation for more information about applying configurations.

### Trigger an action when applying a configuration

To trigger an action on resource lifecycle events, such as creating a resource, configure an `action_trigger` block and specify the action to run and the events that trigger the action. The `action_trigger` block is a member of the `lifecycle` block nested in a `resource` block. Refer to the [`action_trigger` documentation](/terraform/language/block/resource#action_trigger) for details about configuring the block.

In the following example, Terraform invokes the `action.aws_lambda_invoke.example` action after creating the `aws_lambda_function.example` resource. Terraform also invokes the action during a `terraform apply` operation if the `resource` block configuration changes.

```hcl
resource "aws_lambda_function" "example" {
  # resource config 

  lifecycle {
    action_trigger {
      events = [after_create, after_update]
      actions = [action.aws_lambda_invoke.example]
    }
  }
}
```

Terraform invokes the action when you run `terraform apply` and are creating the resource for the first time. This is because one of the `event` triggers is `after_create`. 

Because the  `event` argument includes `after_update`, Terraform also updates the resource on `terraform apply`, even without changes to the configuration, when it detects drift in the resource. 

## View actions in HCP Terraform

If your workspace is connected to your HCP Terraform organization, you can monitor action runs in HCP Terraform. Refer to [Action runs](/terraform/cloud-docs/workspaces/run/manage#action-runs) in the HCP Terraform documentation for more information.
