content/terraform-docs-common/docs/cloud-docs/registry/test/index.mdx, before:

---
page_title: Test private modules in the HCP Terraform private registry
description: Use the HCP Terraform private registry to run module tests.
---

# Test private modules in the HCP Terraform private registry

You can configure HCP Terraform to automatically run tests for modules in your private registry. When enabled, HCP Terraform will run tests for every commit to the designated branch. This lets you verify that it is safe to publish new module versions.

## Enable testing

If your module uses the [branch-based publishing workflow](/terraform/cloud-docs/registry/publish-modules#branch-based-publishing) and its source code includes [tests](/terraform/language/v1.6.x/tests), you can enable testing at any time.

To enable testing when publishing a new module:
- Choose the **Branch** module publishing type
- Assign a branch and a module version
- Under testing, click the **Enable testing for module** checkbox
- Click **Publish module**

To enable testing for an existing module:
- Navigate to the module overview screen
- Click **Configure Tests** to open the **Tests Settings** screen
- Click **Enable testing for module**

## Run tests remotely from the CLI

After publishing and enabling testing for your module, you can use the Terraform CLI locally to trigger remotely-executed tests in HCP Terraform. This lets you test your module changes using the credentials configured in HCP Terraform without committing your changes to version control.

To run your tests remotely, use the `-cloud-run` flag with the path to your module in your private registry.

```shell
terraform test -cloud-run=app.terraform.io/:ORG/:MODULE_NAME/:PROVIDER
```

## Configure environment variables

You can define test-specific environment variables that HCP Terraform will use for testing. If your tests provision infrastructure, you must configure provider credentials for the module.

To add environment variables to your module's tests:

1. On the module overview screen, click **Configure Tests**.
1. In the **Variables** section on the **Tests Settings** screen, click **+ Add variable**.
1. Provide a **Key** and **Value** for your environment variable, and if you want to protect the variable's value, click the **Sensitive** checkbox. `TF_VAR_x` variables of a string type that are not defined in a config must be wrapped in double-quotes.
1. Click **Add variable** to save it.

## Configure dynamic credentials

@include 'tfc-package-callouts/registry-test-dynamic-credentials.mdx'

Instead of using static credentials stored as environment variables to test modules, we recommend configuring HCP Terraform to use OpenID Connect (OIDC) to generate dynamic, short-lived credentials. 

Dynamic credentials authenticate to your cloud provider during test runs without exposing long-lived credentials. This improves security and eliminates the need to manage and rotate cloud provider credentials.

When you enable dynamic credentials for module testing, HCP Terraform generates a unique OIDC token for each test run. Your cloud provider verifies the token and grants temporary credentials based on your trust configuration. The tokens automatically expire after a configured time period.

### Benefits of dynamic credentials

- **No static credentials**: Eliminates the need to store long-lived cloud credentials as environment variables
- **Automatic rotation**: Each test run receives a new token that expires automatically
- **Granular permissions**: Use subject claims to grant permissions to specific modules
- **Audit trail**: Token generation events are logged for security monitoring

Refer to [Use dynamic credentials with module testing](/terraform/cloud-docs/registry/test/dynamic-credentials) for more information.

## Configure providers

You can define test-specific provider configurations for HCP Terraform to use while testing. When using dynamic credentials, cloud provider authentication is handled automatically by HCP Terraform through environment variables. For guidance on implementing test-specific provider configuration, refer to [Terraform test](/terraform/language/tests#providers).

<!-- BEGIN: TFC:only name:generate-module-tests -->

## Generated module tests

@include 'tfc-package-callouts/tests.mdx'

HCP Terraform can generate [test files](/terraform/language/tests) for any private module in your registry. You can only generate tests one time per module.

To generate tests for your module:

1. On the module overview screen, click **Generate tests**.
1. Click **Confirm**. It will take a few minutes to generate your module tests.
1. HCP Terraform displays generated configuration. To download all of the test files, click **Download generated tests**.
1. Create a `tests` directory in your configuration.
1. Unzip the downloaded files into the new `tests` directory.

Generated test files remain available on the module overview page for later retrieval. Click **View test files** to view and download any previously generated tests.

Organization owners can control this feature on the organization's [General Settings](/terraform/cloud-docs/users-teams-organizations/organizations#organization-settings) page.

<!-- END: TFC:only name:generate-module-tests -->

Commit message:

[TF-31940] Revise module test dynamic-credentials docs
Clarify and reformat module test dynamic-credentials documentation.

- AWS guide: clarified OIDC provider guidance, reworded instructions, standardized step formatting, and minor copy edits to trust policy and ARN examples.
- Dynamic-credentials index: removed the standalone "Benefits" section, consolidated agent version note, expanded configuration overview with UI steps, API reference, and env var guidance; added language tabs for AWS/GCP/Azure/Vault examples and a TTL recommendation table; added brief troubleshooting guidance.
- Registry test page: added "Reduced attack surface" to benefits list.
- redirects.jsonc: removed now-unnecessary redirect entries for module test dynamic-credentials paths.

These changes improve clarity, provide concrete configuration examples, and remove obsolete redirects.

content/terraform-docs-common/docs/cloud-docs/registry/test/index.mdx, after:

---
page_title: Test private modules in the HCP Terraform private registry
description: Use the HCP Terraform private registry to run module tests.
---

# Test private modules in the HCP Terraform private registry

You can configure HCP Terraform to automatically run tests for modules in your private registry. When enabled, HCP Terraform will run tests for every commit to the designated branch. This lets you verify that it is safe to publish new module versions.

## Enable testing

If your module uses the [branch-based publishing workflow](/terraform/cloud-docs/registry/publish-modules#branch-based-publishing) and its source code includes [tests](/terraform/language/v1.6.x/tests), you can enable testing at any time.

To enable testing when publishing a new module:
- Choose the **Branch** module publishing type
- Assign a branch and a module version
- Under testing, click the **Enable testing for module** checkbox
- Click **Publish module**

To enable testing for an existing module:
- Navigate to the module overview screen
- Click **Configure Tests** to open the **Tests Settings** screen
- Click **Enable testing for module**

## Run tests remotely from the CLI

After publishing and enabling testing for your module, you can use the Terraform CLI locally to trigger remotely-executed tests in HCP Terraform. This lets you test your module changes using the credentials configured in HCP Terraform without committing your changes to version control.

To run your tests remotely, use the `-cloud-run` flag with the path to your module in your private registry.

```shell
terraform test -cloud-run=app.terraform.io/:ORG/:MODULE_NAME/:PROVIDER
```

## Configure environment variables

You can define test-specific environment variables that HCP Terraform will use for testing. If your tests provision infrastructure, you must configure provider credentials for the module.

To add environment variables to your module's tests:

1. On the module overview screen, click **Configure Tests**.
1. In the **Variables** section on the **Tests Settings** screen, click **+ Add variable**.
1. Provide a **Key** and **Value** for your environment variable, and if you want to protect the variable's value, click the **Sensitive** checkbox. `TF_VAR_x` variables of a string type that are not defined in a config must be wrapped in double-quotes.
1. Click **Add variable** to save it.

## Configure dynamic credentials

@include 'tfc-package-callouts/registry-test-dynamic-credentials.mdx'

Instead of using static credentials stored as environment variables to test modules, we recommend configuring HCP Terraform to use OpenID Connect (OIDC) to generate dynamic, short-lived credentials. 

Dynamic credentials authenticate to your cloud provider during test runs without exposing long-lived credentials. This improves security and eliminates the need to manage and rotate cloud provider credentials.

When you enable dynamic credentials for module testing, HCP Terraform generates a unique OIDC token for each test run. Your cloud provider verifies the token and grants temporary credentials based on your trust configuration. The tokens automatically expire after a configured time period.

### Benefits of dynamic credentials

- **No static credentials**: Eliminates the need to store long-lived cloud credentials as environment variables
- **Automatic rotation**: Each test run receives a new token that expires automatically
- **Granular permissions**: Use subject claims to grant permissions to specific modules
- **Audit trail**: Token generation events are logged for security monitoring
- **Reduced attack surface**: Compromised tokens are only valid for a limited time

Refer to [Use dynamic credentials with module testing](/terraform/cloud-docs/registry/test/dynamic-credentials) for more information.

## Configure providers

You can define test-specific provider configurations for HCP Terraform to use while testing. When using dynamic credentials, cloud provider authentication is handled automatically by HCP Terraform through environment variables. For guidance on implementing test-specific provider configuration, refer to [Terraform test](/terraform/language/tests#providers).

<!-- BEGIN: TFC:only name:generate-module-tests -->

## Generated module tests

@include 'tfc-package-callouts/tests.mdx'

HCP Terraform can generate [test files](/terraform/language/tests) for any private module in your registry. You can only generate tests one time per module.

To generate tests for your module:

1. On the module overview screen, click **Generate tests**.
1. Click **Confirm**. It will take a few minutes to generate your module tests.
1. HCP Terraform displays generated configuration. To download all of the test files, click **Download generated tests**.
1. Create a `tests` directory in your configuration.
1. Unzip the downloaded files into the new `tests` directory.

Generated test files remain available on the module overview page for later retrieval. Click **View test files** to view and download any previously generated tests.

Organization owners can control this feature on the organization's [General Settings](/terraform/cloud-docs/users-teams-organizations/organizations#organization-settings) page.

<!-- END: TFC:only name:generate-module-tests -->
