content/nomad/v1.11.x/content/commands/deployment/fail.mdx, before:

---
layout: docs
page_title: 'nomad deployment fail command reference'
description: |
  The `nomad deployment fail` command manually fails a deployment, which stops the placement of new allocations.
---

# `nomad deployment fail` command reference

The `deployment fail` command is used to mark a deployment as failed. Failing a
deployment will stop the placement of new allocations as part of rolling
deployment and if the job is configured to auto revert, the job will attempt to
roll back to a stable version.

## Usage

```plaintext
nomad deployment fail [options] <deployment id>
```

The `deployment fail` command requires a single argument, a deployment ID or
prefix.

When ACLs are enabled, this command requires a token with the `submit-job`
and `read-job` capabilities for the deployment's namespace.

## Options

- `-detach`: Return immediately instead of monitoring. A new evaluation ID
  will be output, which can be used to examine the evaluation using the
  [eval status] command.

- `-verbose`: Show full information.

## Examples

Manually mark an ongoing deployment as failed:

```shell-session
$ nomad deployment fail 8990cfbc
Deployment "8990cfbc-28c0-cb28-ca31-856cf691b987" failed

==> Monitoring evaluation "a2d97ad5"
    Evaluation triggered by job "example"
    Evaluation within deployment: "8990cfbc"
    Evaluation status changed: "pending" -> "complete"
==> Evaluation "a2d97ad5" finished with status "complete"

$ nomad deployment status 8990cfbc
ID          = 8990cfbc
Job ID      = example
Job Version = 2
Status      = failed
Description = Deployment marked as failed

Deployed
Task Group  Desired  Placed  Healthy  Unhealthy
cache       3        2       1        0
```

## General options

@include 'general_options.mdx'

[eval status]: /nomad/commands/eval/status

Commit message:

Nomad: adding policy & acl updates for new job capabilities (#1665)
* add new fine-grain capabilites to policy page

* add additional ACL capabilities to appropriate commands

* add additional ACL capabilities to appropriate api-docs

* update deregister-job capability to specify gc behavior

* make sentinel permission addition explicit in api-docs

content/nomad/v1.11.x/content/commands/deployment/fail.mdx, after:

---
layout: docs
page_title: 'nomad deployment fail command reference'
description: |
  The `nomad deployment fail` command manually fails a deployment, which stops the placement of new allocations.
---

# `nomad deployment fail` command reference

The `deployment fail` command is used to mark a deployment as failed. Failing a
deployment will stop the placement of new allocations as part of rolling
deployment and if the job is configured to auto revert, the job will attempt to
roll back to a stable version.

## Usage

```plaintext
nomad deployment fail [options] <deployment id>
```

The `deployment fail` command requires a single argument, a deployment ID or
prefix.

When ACLs are enabled, this command requires a token with either the
`submit-job` or `fail-deployment` capability, and `read-job` capabilities for
the deployment's namespace.

## Options

- `-detach`: Return immediately instead of monitoring. A new evaluation ID
  will be output, which can be used to examine the evaluation using the
  [eval status] command.

- `-verbose`: Show full information.

## Examples

Manually mark an ongoing deployment as failed:

```shell-session
$ nomad deployment fail 8990cfbc
Deployment "8990cfbc-28c0-cb28-ca31-856cf691b987" failed

==> Monitoring evaluation "a2d97ad5"
    Evaluation triggered by job "example"
    Evaluation within deployment: "8990cfbc"
    Evaluation status changed: "pending" -> "complete"
==> Evaluation "a2d97ad5" finished with status "complete"

$ nomad deployment status 8990cfbc
ID          = 8990cfbc
Job ID      = example
Job Version = 2
Status      = failed
Description = Deployment marked as failed

Deployed
Task Group  Desired  Placed  Healthy  Unhealthy
cache       3        2       1        0
```

## General options

@include 'general_options.mdx'

[eval status]: /nomad/commands/eval/status
