content/nomad/v1.11.x/content/commands/deployment/promote.mdx, before:

---
layout: docs
page_title: 'nomad deployment promote command reference'
description: |
  The `nomad deployment promote` command promotes healthy task group canaries in a deployment.
---

# `nomad deployment promote` command reference

The `deployment promote` command is used to promote task groups in a deployment.
Promotion should occur when the deployment has placed canaries for a task group
and those canaries have been deemed healthy. When a task group is promoted, the
rolling upgrade of the remaining allocations is unblocked. If the canaries are
found to be unhealthy, the deployment may either be failed using the "nomad
deployment fail" command, the job can be failed forward by submitting a new
version or failed backwards by reverting to an older version using the
[`job revert`] command.

## Usage

```plaintext
nomad deployment promote [options] <deployment id>
```

The `deployment promote` command requires a single argument, a deployment ID or
prefix. When run without specifying any groups to promote, the promote command
promotes all task groups. The group flag can be specified multiple times to
select particular groups to promote.

When ACLs are enabled, this command requires a token with the `submit-job`
and `read-job` capabilities for the deployment's namespace.

## Options

- `-group`: Group may be specified many times and is used to promote that
  particular group. If no specific groups are specified, all groups are
  promoted.

- `-detach`: Return immediately instead of monitoring. A new evaluation ID
  will be output, which can be used to examine the evaluation using the
  [eval status] command

- `-verbose`: Show full information.

## Examples

Promote canaries in all groups:

```shell-session
# Have two task groups waiting for promotion.
$ nomad status example
ID            = example
Name          = example
Submit Date   = 07/25/17 18:35:05 UTC
Type          = service
Priority      = 50
Datacenters   = dc1
Status        = running
Periodic      = false
Parameterized = false

Summary
Task Group  Queued  Starting  Running  Failed  Complete  Lost
cache       0       0         3        0       0         0
web         0       0         3        0       0         0

Latest Deployment
ID          = 9fa81f27
Status      = running
Description = Deployment is running but requires manual promotion

Deployed
Task Group  Promoted  Desired  Canaries  Placed  Healthy  Unhealthy
web         false     2        1         1       0        0
cache       false     2        1         1       0        0

Allocations
ID        Node ID   Task Group  Version  Desired  Status   Created At
091377e5  a8dcce2d  web         1        run      running  07/25/17 18:35:05 UTC
d2b13584  a8dcce2d  cache       1        run      running  07/25/17 18:35:05 UTC
4bb185b7  a8dcce2d  web         0        run      running  07/25/17 18:31:34 UTC
9b6811ee  a8dcce2d  cache       0        run      running  07/25/17 18:31:34 UTC
e0a2441b  a8dcce2d  cache       0        run      running  07/25/17 18:31:34 UTC
f2409f7d  a8dcce2d  web         0        run      running  07/25/17 18:31:34 UTC

# Promote all groups within the deployment
$ nomad deployment promote 9fa81f27
==> Monitoring evaluation "6c6e64ae"
    Evaluation triggered by job "example"
    Evaluation within deployment: "9fa81f27"
    Allocation "8fa21654" created: node "a8dcce2d", group "web"
    Allocation "9f6727a6" created: node "a8dcce2d", group "cache"
    Evaluation status changed: "pending" -> "complete"
==> Evaluation "6c6e64ae" finished with status "complete"

# Inspect the status and see both groups have been promoted.
$ nomad status example
ID            = example
Name          = example
Submit Date   = 07/25/17 18:35:05 UTC
Type          = service
Priority      = 50
Datacenters   = dc1
Status        = running
Periodic      = false
Parameterized = false

Summary
Task Group  Queued  Starting  Running  Failed  Complete  Lost
cache       0       0         2        0       2         0
web         0       0         2        0       2         0

Latest Deployment
ID          = 9fa81f27
Status      = successful
Description = Deployment completed successfully

Deployed
Task Group  Promoted  Desired  Canaries  Placed  Healthy  Unhealthy
web         true      2        1         2       2        0
cache       true      2        1         2       2        0

Allocations
ID        Node ID   Task Group  Version  Desired  Status    Created At
8fa21654  a8dcce2d  web         1        run      running   07/25/17 18:35:21 UTC
9f6727a6  a8dcce2d  cache       1        run      running   07/25/17 18:35:21 UTC
091377e5  a8dcce2d  web         1        run      running   07/25/17 18:35:05 UTC
d2b13584  a8dcce2d  cache       1        run      running   07/25/17 18:35:05 UTC
4bb185b7  a8dcce2d  web         0        stop     complete  07/25/17 18:31:34 UTC
9b6811ee  a8dcce2d  cache       0        stop     complete  07/25/17 18:31:34 UTC
e0a2441b  a8dcce2d  cache       0        stop     complete  07/25/17 18:31:34 UTC
f2409f7d  a8dcce2d  web         0        stop     complete  07/25/17 18:31:34 UTC
```

Promote canaries in a particular group:

```shell-session
# Have two task groups waiting for promotion.
$ nomad status example
ID            = example
Name          = example
Submit Date   = 07/25/17 18:37:14 UTC
Type          = service
Priority      = 50
Datacenters   = dc1
Status        = running
Periodic      = false
Parameterized = false

Summary
Task Group  Queued  Starting  Running  Failed  Complete  Lost
cache       0       0         3        0       0         0
web         0       0         3        0       0         0

Latest Deployment
ID          = a6b87a6c
Status      = running
Description = Deployment is running but requires manual promotion

Deployed
Task Group  Promoted  Desired  Canaries  Placed  Healthy  Unhealthy
cache       false     2        1         1       1        0
web         false     2        1         1       1        0

Allocations
ID        Node ID   Task Group  Version  Desired  Status   Created At
3071ab8f  6240eed6  web         1        run      running  07/25/17 18:37:14 UTC
eeeed13b  6240eed6  cache       1        run      running  07/25/17 18:37:14 UTC
0ee7800c  6240eed6  cache       0        run      running  07/25/17 18:37:08 UTC
a714a926  6240eed6  cache       0        run      running  07/25/17 18:37:08 UTC
cee52788  6240eed6  web         0        run      running  07/25/17 18:37:08 UTC
ee8f972e  6240eed6  web         0        run      running  07/25/17 18:37:08 UTC

# Promote only the cache canaries
$ nomad deployment promote -group cache a6b87a6c
==> Monitoring evaluation "37383564"
    Evaluation triggered by job "example"
    Evaluation within deployment: "a6b87a6c"
    Allocation "bbddf5c3" created: node "6240eed6", group "cache"
    Evaluation status changed: "pending" -> "complete"
==> Evaluation "37383564" finished with status "complete"

# Inspect the status and see that only the cache canaries are promoted
$ nomad status example
ID            = example
Name          = example
Submit Date   = 07/25/17 18:37:14 UTC
Type          = service
Priority      = 50
Datacenters   = dc1
Status        = running
Periodic      = false
Parameterized = false

Summary
Task Group  Queued  Starting  Running  Failed  Complete  Lost
cache       0       0         2        0       2         0
web         0       0         3        0       0         0

Latest Deployment
ID          = a6b87a6c
Status      = running
Description = Deployment is running but requires manual promotion

Deployed
Task Group  Promoted  Desired  Canaries  Placed  Healthy  Unhealthy
web         false     2        1         1       1        0
cache       true      2        1         2       2        0

Allocations
ID        Node ID   Task Group  Version  Desired  Status    Created At
bbddf5c3  6240eed6  cache       1        run      running   07/25/17 18:37:40 UTC
eeeed13b  6240eed6  cache       1        run      running   07/25/17 18:37:14 UTC
3071ab8f  6240eed6  web         1        run      running   07/25/17 18:37:14 UTC
a714a926  6240eed6  cache       0        stop     complete  07/25/17 18:37:08 UTC
cee52788  6240eed6  web         0        run      running   07/25/17 18:37:08 UTC
ee8f972e  6240eed6  web         0        run      running   07/25/17 18:37:08 UTC
0ee7800c  6240eed6  cache       0        stop     complete  07/25/17 18:37:08 UTC
```

## General options

@include 'general_options.mdx'

[`job revert`]: /nomad/commands/job/revert
[eval status]: /nomad/commands/eval/status

Commit message:

Nomad: adding policy & acl updates for new job capabilities (#1665)
* add new fine-grain capabilites to policy page

* add additional ACL capabilities to appropriate commands

* add additional ACL capabilities to appropriate api-docs

* update deregister-job capability to specify gc behavior

* make sentinel permission addition explicit in api-docs

content/nomad/v1.11.x/content/commands/deployment/promote.mdx, after:

---
layout: docs
page_title: 'nomad deployment promote command reference'
description: |
  The `nomad deployment promote` command promotes healthy task group canaries in a deployment.
---

# `nomad deployment promote` command reference

The `deployment promote` command is used to promote task groups in a deployment.
Promotion should occur when the deployment has placed canaries for a task group
and those canaries have been deemed healthy. When a task group is promoted, the
rolling upgrade of the remaining allocations is unblocked. If the canaries are
found to be unhealthy, the deployment may either be failed using the "nomad
deployment fail" command, the job can be failed forward by submitting a new
version or failed backwards by reverting to an older version using the
[`job revert`] command.

## Usage

```plaintext
nomad deployment promote [options] <deployment id>
```

The `deployment promote` command requires a single argument, a deployment ID or
prefix. When run without specifying any groups to promote, the promote command
promotes all task groups. The group flag can be specified multiple times to
select particular groups to promote.

When ACLs are enabled, this command requires a token with either the
`submit-job` or `promote-deployment` capability, and `read-job` capabilities for
the deployment's namespace.

## Options

- `-group`: Group may be specified many times and is used to promote that
  particular group. If no specific groups are specified, all groups are
  promoted.

- `-detach`: Return immediately instead of monitoring. A new evaluation ID
  will be output, which can be used to examine the evaluation using the
  [eval status] command

- `-verbose`: Show full information.

## Examples

Promote canaries in all groups:

```shell-session
# Have two task groups waiting for promotion.
$ nomad status example
ID            = example
Name          = example
Submit Date   = 07/25/17 18:35:05 UTC
Type          = service
Priority      = 50
Datacenters   = dc1
Status        = running
Periodic      = false
Parameterized = false

Summary
Task Group  Queued  Starting  Running  Failed  Complete  Lost
cache       0       0         3        0       0         0
web         0       0         3        0       0         0

Latest Deployment
ID          = 9fa81f27
Status      = running
Description = Deployment is running but requires manual promotion

Deployed
Task Group  Promoted  Desired  Canaries  Placed  Healthy  Unhealthy
web         false     2        1         1       0        0
cache       false     2        1         1       0        0

Allocations
ID        Node ID   Task Group  Version  Desired  Status   Created At
091377e5  a8dcce2d  web         1        run      running  07/25/17 18:35:05 UTC
d2b13584  a8dcce2d  cache       1        run      running  07/25/17 18:35:05 UTC
4bb185b7  a8dcce2d  web         0        run      running  07/25/17 18:31:34 UTC
9b6811ee  a8dcce2d  cache       0        run      running  07/25/17 18:31:34 UTC
e0a2441b  a8dcce2d  cache       0        run      running  07/25/17 18:31:34 UTC
f2409f7d  a8dcce2d  web         0        run      running  07/25/17 18:31:34 UTC

# Promote all groups within the deployment
$ nomad deployment promote 9fa81f27
==> Monitoring evaluation "6c6e64ae"
    Evaluation triggered by job "example"
    Evaluation within deployment: "9fa81f27"
    Allocation "8fa21654" created: node "a8dcce2d", group "web"
    Allocation "9f6727a6" created: node "a8dcce2d", group "cache"
    Evaluation status changed: "pending" -> "complete"
==> Evaluation "6c6e64ae" finished with status "complete"

# Inspect the status and see both groups have been promoted.
$ nomad status example
ID            = example
Name          = example
Submit Date   = 07/25/17 18:35:05 UTC
Type          = service
Priority      = 50
Datacenters   = dc1
Status        = running
Periodic      = false
Parameterized = false

Summary
Task Group  Queued  Starting  Running  Failed  Complete  Lost
cache       0       0         2        0       2         0
web         0       0         2        0       2         0

Latest Deployment
ID          = 9fa81f27
Status      = successful
Description = Deployment completed successfully

Deployed
Task Group  Promoted  Desired  Canaries  Placed  Healthy  Unhealthy
web         true      2        1         2       2        0
cache       true      2        1         2       2        0

Allocations
ID        Node ID   Task Group  Version  Desired  Status    Created At
8fa21654  a8dcce2d  web         1        run      running   07/25/17 18:35:21 UTC
9f6727a6  a8dcce2d  cache       1        run      running   07/25/17 18:35:21 UTC
091377e5  a8dcce2d  web         1        run      running   07/25/17 18:35:05 UTC
d2b13584  a8dcce2d  cache       1        run      running   07/25/17 18:35:05 UTC
4bb185b7  a8dcce2d  web         0        stop     complete  07/25/17 18:31:34 UTC
9b6811ee  a8dcce2d  cache       0        stop     complete  07/25/17 18:31:34 UTC
e0a2441b  a8dcce2d  cache       0        stop     complete  07/25/17 18:31:34 UTC
f2409f7d  a8dcce2d  web         0        stop     complete  07/25/17 18:31:34 UTC
```

Promote canaries in a particular group:

```shell-session
# Have two task groups waiting for promotion.
$ nomad status example
ID            = example
Name          = example
Submit Date   = 07/25/17 18:37:14 UTC
Type          = service
Priority      = 50
Datacenters   = dc1
Status        = running
Periodic      = false
Parameterized = false

Summary
Task Group  Queued  Starting  Running  Failed  Complete  Lost
cache       0       0         3        0       0         0
web         0       0         3        0       0         0

Latest Deployment
ID          = a6b87a6c
Status      = running
Description = Deployment is running but requires manual promotion

Deployed
Task Group  Promoted  Desired  Canaries  Placed  Healthy  Unhealthy
cache       false     2        1         1       1        0
web         false     2        1         1       1        0

Allocations
ID        Node ID   Task Group  Version  Desired  Status   Created At
3071ab8f  6240eed6  web         1        run      running  07/25/17 18:37:14 UTC
eeeed13b  6240eed6  cache       1        run      running  07/25/17 18:37:14 UTC
0ee7800c  6240eed6  cache       0        run      running  07/25/17 18:37:08 UTC
a714a926  6240eed6  cache       0        run      running  07/25/17 18:37:08 UTC
cee52788  6240eed6  web         0        run      running  07/25/17 18:37:08 UTC
ee8f972e  6240eed6  web         0        run      running  07/25/17 18:37:08 UTC

# Promote only the cache canaries
$ nomad deployment promote -group cache a6b87a6c
==> Monitoring evaluation "37383564"
    Evaluation triggered by job "example"
    Evaluation within deployment: "a6b87a6c"
    Allocation "bbddf5c3" created: node "6240eed6", group "cache"
    Evaluation status changed: "pending" -> "complete"
==> Evaluation "37383564" finished with status "complete"

# Inspect the status and see that only the cache canaries are promoted
$ nomad status example
ID            = example
Name          = example
Submit Date   = 07/25/17 18:37:14 UTC
Type          = service
Priority      = 50
Datacenters   = dc1
Status        = running
Periodic      = false
Parameterized = false

Summary
Task Group  Queued  Starting  Running  Failed  Complete  Lost
cache       0       0         2        0       2         0
web         0       0         3        0       0         0

Latest Deployment
ID          = a6b87a6c
Status      = running
Description = Deployment is running but requires manual promotion

Deployed
Task Group  Promoted  Desired  Canaries  Placed  Healthy  Unhealthy
web         false     2        1         1       1        0
cache       true      2        1         2       2        0

Allocations
ID        Node ID   Task Group  Version  Desired  Status    Created At
bbddf5c3  6240eed6  cache       1        run      running   07/25/17 18:37:40 UTC
eeeed13b  6240eed6  cache       1        run      running   07/25/17 18:37:14 UTC
3071ab8f  6240eed6  web         1        run      running   07/25/17 18:37:14 UTC
a714a926  6240eed6  cache       0        stop     complete  07/25/17 18:37:08 UTC
cee52788  6240eed6  web         0        run      running   07/25/17 18:37:08 UTC
ee8f972e  6240eed6  web         0        run      running   07/25/17 18:37:08 UTC
0ee7800c  6240eed6  cache       0        stop     complete  07/25/17 18:37:08 UTC
```

## General options

@include 'general_options.mdx'

[`job revert`]: /nomad/commands/job/revert
[eval status]: /nomad/commands/eval/status
