content/nomad/v1.11.x/content/commands/deployment/resume.mdx, before:

---
layout: docs
page_title: 'nomad deployment resume command reference'
description: |
  The `nomad deployment resume` command resumes a paused deployment.
---

# `nomad deployment resume` command reference

The `deployment resume` command is used to unpause a paused deployment.
Resuming a deployment will resume the placement of new allocations as part of
rolling deployment.

## Usage

```plaintext
nomad deployment resume [options] <deployment id>
```

The `deployment resume` command requires a single argument, a deployment ID or
prefix.

When ACLs are enabled, this command requires a token with the `submit-job`
and `read-job` capabilities for the deployment's namespace.

## Options

- `-detach`: Return immediately instead of monitoring. A new evaluation ID
  will be output, which can be used to examine the evaluation using the
  [eval status] command

- `-verbose`: Show full information.

## Examples

Manually resume a deployment:

```shell-session
$ nomad deployment resume c848972e
Deployment "c848972e-dcd3-7354-e0d2-39d86642cdb1" resumed

==> Monitoring evaluation "5e266d42"
    Evaluation triggered by job "example"
    Evaluation within deployment: "c848972e"
    Allocation "00208424" created: node "6240eed6", group "web"
    Allocation "68c72edf" created: node "6240eed6", group "cache"
    Allocation "00208424" status changed: "pending" -> "running"
    Evaluation status changed: "pending" -> "complete"
==> Evaluation "5e266d42" finished with status "complete"
```

## General options

@include 'general_options.mdx'

[eval status]: /nomad/commands/eval/status

Commit message:

Nomad: adding policy & acl updates for new job capabilities (#1665)
* add new fine-grain capabilites to policy page

* add additional ACL capabilities to appropriate commands

* add additional ACL capabilities to appropriate api-docs

* update deregister-job capability to specify gc behavior

* make sentinel permission addition explicit in api-docs

content/nomad/v1.11.x/content/commands/deployment/resume.mdx, after:

---
layout: docs
page_title: 'nomad deployment resume command reference'
description: |
  The `nomad deployment resume` command resumes a paused deployment.
---

# `nomad deployment resume` command reference

The `deployment resume` command is used to unpause a paused deployment.
Resuming a deployment will resume the placement of new allocations as part of
rolling deployment.

## Usage

```plaintext
nomad deployment resume [options] <deployment id>
```

The `deployment resume` command requires a single argument, a deployment ID or
prefix.

When ACLs are enabled, this command requires a token with either the
`submit-job` or `pause-deployment` capability, and `read-job` capabilities for
the deployment's namespace.

## Options

- `-detach`: Return immediately instead of monitoring. A new evaluation ID
  will be output, which can be used to examine the evaluation using the
  [eval status] command

- `-verbose`: Show full information.

## Examples

Manually resume a deployment:

```shell-session
$ nomad deployment resume c848972e
Deployment "c848972e-dcd3-7354-e0d2-39d86642cdb1" resumed

==> Monitoring evaluation "5e266d42"
    Evaluation triggered by job "example"
    Evaluation within deployment: "c848972e"
    Allocation "00208424" created: node "6240eed6", group "web"
    Allocation "68c72edf" created: node "6240eed6", group "cache"
    Allocation "00208424" status changed: "pending" -> "running"
    Evaluation status changed: "pending" -> "complete"
==> Evaluation "5e266d42" finished with status "complete"
```

## General options

@include 'general_options.mdx'

[eval status]: /nomad/commands/eval/status
