content/nomad/v1.11.x/content/docs/architecture/cluster/node-identity.mdx, before:

---
layout: docs
page_title: Node identity
description: Nomad's node identity feature uniquely identities each Nomad client node and provides an authentication mechanism for nodes to make RPC calls to the Nomad servers.
---

# Node identity

This page provides conceptual information about Nomad's node identity feature,
which uniquely identities each Nomad client node and provides an authentication
mechanism for nodes to make RPC calls to the Nomad servers.

The Nomad cluster gives every node a default identity once the cluster is able
to fully support the feature with a defined lifetime. This node identity is a
[JSON Web Token (JWT)][] that has been signed by the leader's keyring and is
generated as part of the node's registration and heartbeat process.

## Node identity claims

Alongside the standard JWT claims such as `exp` (expiration time), `iat` (issued
at time), and `aud` (audience), Nomad node identity includes the
`nomad_node_id`, `nomad_node_pool`, and `nomad_node_datacenter` identity claims.

```json
{
  "nomad_node_id": "f6e8c9d4-5b6a-4c3d-8e2f-1a2b3c4d5e6f",
  "nomad_node_pool": "default",
  "nomad_node_datacenter": "dc1"
}
```

To review all identity claims for a specific node, run the
[`node identity get` command][cli_node_identity_get].

## Node identity renewal

The node pool specification's [`node_identity_ttl`][config_node_identity_ttl]
parameter dictates the identity's expiration, which defaults to 24 hours. When a
node's identity exceeds 67% of its lifetime, the Nomad server issues a new
identity to the node at its next heartbeat.

You may force a node to renew its identity at its next heartbeat by running the
[`node identity renew` command][cli_node_identity_renew], which ensure the 67%
lifetime check is bypassed.

## Node identity persistence

A node's identity is stored within its local database, which is persisted within the
configured [`data_dir`][client_cfg_state_dir]. To view the stored identity,
along with other state resouces, run the
[`operator client-state` command][cli_operattor_client_state].

[JSON Web Token (JWT)]: https://datatracker.ietf.org/doc/html/rfc7519
[config_node_identity_ttl]: /nomad/docs/other-specifications/node-pool#node_identity_ttl
[cli_node_identity_get]: /nomad/commands/node/identity/get
[cli_node_identity_renew]: /nomad/commands/node/identity/renew
[client_cfg_state_dir]: /nomad/docs/configuration/client#state_dir
[cli_operattor_client_state]: /nomad/commands/operator/client-state

Commit message:

Add that the client node intro feature does not replace mTLS.

content/nomad/v1.11.x/content/docs/architecture/cluster/node-identity.mdx, after:

---
layout: docs
page_title: Node identity
description: Nomad's node identity feature uniquely identities each Nomad client node and provides an authentication mechanism for nodes to make RPC calls to the Nomad servers.
---

# Node identity

This page provides conceptual information about Nomad's node identity feature,
which uniquely identities each Nomad client node and provides an authentication
mechanism for nodes to make RPC calls to the Nomad servers. This feature does
not replace mTLS.

The Nomad cluster gives every node a default identity once the cluster is able
to fully support the feature with a defined lifetime. This node identity is a
[JSON Web Token (JWT)][] that has been signed by the leader's keyring and is
generated as part of the node's registration and heartbeat process.

## Node identity claims

Alongside the standard JWT claims such as `exp` (expiration time), `iat` (issued
at time), and `aud` (audience), Nomad node identity includes the
`nomad_node_id`, `nomad_node_pool`, and `nomad_node_datacenter` identity claims.

```json
{
  "nomad_node_id": "f6e8c9d4-5b6a-4c3d-8e2f-1a2b3c4d5e6f",
  "nomad_node_pool": "default",
  "nomad_node_datacenter": "dc1"
}
```

To review all identity claims for a specific node, run the
[`node identity get` command][cli_node_identity_get].

## Node identity renewal

The node pool specification's [`node_identity_ttl`][config_node_identity_ttl]
parameter dictates the identity's expiration, which defaults to 24 hours. When a
node's identity exceeds 67% of its lifetime, the Nomad server issues a new
identity to the node at its next heartbeat.

You may force a node to renew its identity at its next heartbeat by running the
[`node identity renew` command][cli_node_identity_renew], which ensure the 67%
lifetime check is bypassed.

## Node identity persistence

A node's identity is stored within its local database, which is persisted within the
configured [`data_dir`][client_cfg_state_dir]. To view the stored identity,
along with other state resouces, run the
[`operator client-state` command][cli_operattor_client_state].

[JSON Web Token (JWT)]: https://datatracker.ietf.org/doc/html/rfc7519
[config_node_identity_ttl]: /nomad/docs/other-specifications/node-pool#node_identity_ttl
[cli_node_identity_get]: /nomad/commands/node/identity/get
[cli_node_identity_renew]: /nomad/commands/node/identity/renew
[client_cfg_state_dir]: /nomad/docs/configuration/client#state_dir
[cli_operattor_client_state]: /nomad/commands/operator/client-state
