content/terraform-docs-common/docs/cloud-docs/registry/test/dynamic-credentials/aws.mdx, before:

---
page_title: Use dynamic credentials with the AWS provider in module testing
description: >-
  Configure AWS IAM to trust HCP Terraform's OIDC tokens for module test runs,
  eliminating the need for static AWS credentials.
---

# Configure dynamic credentials for AWS in module testing

@include 'tfc-package-callouts/registry-test-dynamic-credentials.mdx'

You can use HCP Terraform's native OpenID Connect integration with AWS to get dynamic, short-lived credentials for module test runs. This approach eliminates the need to store static AWS credentials and improves security by using temporary credentials that automatically expire.

Before you begin, decide whether to use separate IAM roles for module tests or reuse workspace roles. Separate roles provide better isolation and allow you to grant different permissions for testing versus production workloads.

## Requirements

You need the following to configure dynamic credentials for AWS in module testing:

- An AWS account with permissions to create and configure IAM roles and OIDC providers
- An HCP Terraform organization with module testing enabled
- A private registry module with [testing configured](/terraform/cloud-docs/registry/test)
- Permissions in HCP Terraform to modify registry module test settings

## Configure AWS

### Create an IAM OIDC provider

If you haven't already configured an OIDC identity provider for HCP Terraform in your AWS account, create one:

1. Sign in to the AWS Management Console and navigate to **IAM > Identity providers**
2. Click **Add provider**
3. Select **OpenID Connect** as the provider type
4. Enter the provider URL:
   - For HCP Terraform: `https://app.terraform.io`
   - For Terraform Enterprise: `https://<TFE_HOSTNAME>` (replace with your TFE hostname)
5. Click **Get thumbprint** to automatically retrieve the thumbprint
6. For **Audience**, enter: `aws.workload.identity`
7. Click **Add provider**

~> **Note**: You only need to create one OIDC provider per AWS account. You can reuse this provider for all HCP Terraform workspaces and module tests.

### Create an IAM role for module tests

Create a dedicated IAM role that module tests will assume:

1. In the AWS Management Console, navigate to **IAM > Roles**
2. Click **Create role**
3. Select **Web identity** as the trusted entity type
4. Choose the OIDC provider you created above
5. For **Audience**, select `aws.workload.identity`
6. Click **Next**
7. Attach permissions policies required for your module tests (see [permissions recommendations](#permissions-recommendations))
8. Name the role (e.g., `terraform-module-test-role`)
9. Click **Create role**

### Configure the trust policy

After creating the role, configure its trust policy to accept tokens from your module tests. The trust policy controls which HCP Terraform organizations and modules can assume the role.

1. Open the IAM role you created
2. Navigate to the **Trust relationships** tab
3. Click **Edit trust policy**
4. Update the trust policy to include module test-specific conditions:

<CodeBlockConfig hideClipboard>

```json
{
  "Version": "2012-10-17",
  "Statement": [
    {
      "Effect": "Allow",
      "Principal": {
        "Federated": "arn:aws:iam::123456789012:oidc-provider/app.terraform.io"
      },
      "Action": "sts:AssumeRoleWithWebIdentity",
      "Condition": {
        "StringEquals": {
          "app.terraform.io:aud": "aws.workload.identity"
        },
        "StringLike": {
          "app.terraform.io:sub": "organization:my-org:module:*:operation:test_run"
        }
      }
    }
  ]
}
```

</CodeBlockConfig>

Replace the following values:
- `123456789012`: Your AWS account ID
- `app.terraform.io`: Your HCP Terraform or Terraform Enterprise hostname
- `my-org`: Your organization's name (found in organization settings)

This trust policy allows any module in your organization to assume the role, but only during test runs (identified by the `:operation:test_run` suffix in the subject claim).

## Configure HCP Terraform

After configuring AWS, configure your registry module's test configuration to use dynamic credentials.

### Configure through the UI

1. Navigate to your private registry module in HCP Terraform
2. Click **Tests** in the module navigation
3. Click **Configuration** or **Settings**
4. In the **Dynamic Credentials** section, toggle **Enable dynamic credentials**
5. Select **AWS** as the provider
6. Enter the IAM role ARN (e.g., `arn:aws:iam::123456789012:role/terraform-module-test-role`)
7. (Optional) Set a custom audience if you configured a different audience in your OIDC provider
8. Click **Save configuration**

### Configure through the API

You can also configure dynamic credentials using the [Test Configuration API](/terraform/cloud-docs/api-docs/private-registry/test-configuration):

```bash
curl \
  --header "Authorization: Bearer $TOKEN" \
  --header "Content-Type: application/vnd.api+json" \
  --request PATCH \
  --data @payload.json \
  https://app.terraform.io/api/v2/registry-modules/:registry_name/:namespace/:name/:provider/test-configuration
```

With the following `payload.json`:

```json
{
  "data": {
    "type": "test-configurations",
    "attributes": {
      "oidc-enabled": true,
      "oidc-provider": "aws",
      "oidc-configuration": {
        "role-arn": "arn:aws:iam::123456789012:role/terraform-module-test-role",
        "audience": "aws.workload.identity"
      }
    }
  }
}
```

## Environment variables

When you configure dynamic credentials for AWS, HCP Terraform automatically sets the following environment variables in your module test runs:

| Variable | Description | Example Value |
|----------|-------------|---------------|
| `TFC_AWS_PROVIDER_AUTH` | Signals the AWS provider to use OIDC authentication | `true` |
| `TFC_AWS_RUN_ROLE_ARN` | The IAM role ARN to assume | `arn:aws:iam::123456789012:role/terraform-module-test-role` |
| `TFC_AWS_WORKLOAD_IDENTITY_AUDIENCE` | The audience claim for OIDC tokens | `aws.workload.identity` |
| `TFC_OIDC_ISSUER_URL` | The OIDC issuer URL | `https://app.terraform.io` |
| `TFC_OIDC_AUDIENCE` | The OIDC audience | `aws.workload.identity` |

The AWS Terraform provider (version 4.67.0 and later) automatically uses these environment variables to authenticate with AWS. You don't need to configure the provider block explicitly.

## Trust policy examples

### Basic trust policy for all module tests

Allow all module tests in your organization to assume the role:

```json
{
  "Version": "2012-10-17",
  "Statement": [
    {
      "Effect": "Allow",
      "Principal": {
        "Federated": "arn:aws:iam::123456789012:oidc-provider/app.terraform.io"
      },
      "Action": "sts:AssumeRoleWithWebIdentity",
      "Condition": {
        "StringEquals": {
          "app.terraform.io:aud": "aws.workload.identity"
        },
        "StringLike": {
          "app.terraform.io:sub": "organization:my-org:module:*:operation:test_run"
        }
      }
    }
  ]
}
```

### Trust policy for specific module

Allow only a specific module to assume the role:

```json
{
  "Version": "2012-10-17",
  "Statement": [
    {
      "Effect": "Allow",
      "Principal": {
        "Federated": "arn:aws:iam::123456789012:oidc-provider/app.terraform.io"
      },
      "Action": "sts:AssumeRoleWithWebIdentity",
      "Condition": {
        "StringEquals": {
          "app.terraform.io:aud": "aws.workload.identity",
          "app.terraform.io:sub": "organization:my-org:module:terraform-aws-vpc:operation:test_run"
        }
      }
    }
  ]
}
```

### Trust policy with organization name claim

Add the organization name claim for additional verification:

```json
{
  "Version": "2012-10-17",
  "Statement": [
    {
      "Effect": "Allow",
      "Principal": {
        "Federated": "arn:aws:iam::123456789012:oidc-provider/app.terraform.io"
      },
      "Action": "sts:AssumeRoleWithWebIdentity",
      "Condition": {
        "StringEquals": {
          "app.terraform.io:aud": "aws.workload.identity",
          "app.terraform.io:terraform_organization_name": "my-org"
        },
        "StringLike": {
          "app.terraform.io:sub": "organization:my-org:module:*:operation:test_run"
        }
      }
    }
  ]
}
```

### Trust policy with module name pattern

Allow all AWS modules to assume the role by matching the module name in the subject claim:

```json
{
  "Version": "2012-10-17",
  "Statement": [
    {
      "Effect": "Allow",
      "Principal": {
        "Federated": "arn:aws:iam::123456789012:oidc-provider/app.terraform.io"
      },
      "Action": "sts:AssumeRoleWithWebIdentity",
      "Condition": {
        "StringEquals": {
          "app.terraform.io:aud": "aws.workload.identity"
        },
        "StringLike": {
          "app.terraform.io:sub": "organization:my-org:module:terraform-aws-*:operation:test_run"
        }
      }
    }
  ]
}
```

## Permissions recommendations

The permissions you attach to your IAM role depend on what your module tests need to do. Follow the principle of least privilege by granting only the minimum permissions required.

### Read-only testing

For modules that only need to validate configurations without creating resources:

```json
{
  "Version": "2012-10-17",
  "Statement": [
    {
      "Effect": "Allow",
      "Action": [
        "ec2:Describe*",
        "s3:List*",
        "s3:Get*",
        "iam:Get*",
        "iam:List*"
      ],
      "Resource": "*"
    }
  ]
}
```

### Resource creation for testing

For modules that create test resources, limit permissions to specific resource types and use resource tags:

```json
{
  "Version": "2012-10-17",
  "Statement": [
    {
      "Effect": "Allow",
      "Action": [
        "ec2:RunInstances",
        "ec2:TerminateInstances",
        "ec2:CreateTags",
        "ec2:Describe*"
      ],
      "Resource": "*",
      "Condition": {
        "StringEquals": {
          "aws:RequestedRegion": "us-east-1",
          "ec2:CreateAction": "RunInstances"
        }
      }
    },
    {
      "Effect": "Allow",
      "Action": [
        "ec2:TerminateInstances"
      ],
      "Resource": "arn:aws:ec2:us-east-1:123456789012:instance/*",
      "Condition": {
        "StringEquals": {
          "ec2:ResourceTag/Testing": "true"
        }
      }
    }
  ]
}
```

-> **Tip**: Use resource tags like `Testing: true` or `ManagedBy: terraform-test` to identify and scope permissions for test resources.

## Verify the configuration

After configuring both AWS and HCP Terraform, verify the setup by running a test:

1. Navigate to your module in HCP Terraform
2. Go to the **Tests** tab
3. Click **Start Test Run** or trigger a test through your VCS
4. Monitor the test run logs for successful authentication

If authentication succeeds, you'll see log output indicating the AWS provider authenticated using the OIDC token. If it fails, check the [troubleshooting](#troubleshooting) section.

## Troubleshooting

### Error: "No valid credential sources found"

This error indicates the AWS provider cannot find credentials. Check:

1. The AWS provider version is 4.67.0 or later
2. Dynamic credentials are enabled in the test configuration
3. The role ARN is correct in the test configuration
4. The `TFC_AWS_PROVIDER_AUTH` environment variable is set to `true`

### Error: "Not authorized to perform sts:AssumeRoleWithWebIdentity"

This error means the IAM role's trust policy rejected the OIDC token. Verify:

1. The OIDC provider exists in your AWS account
2. The trust policy includes the correct issuer URL (app.terraform.io or your TFE hostname)
3. The subject claim pattern matches your organization name and module, ending with `:operation:test_run`
4. The audience in the trust policy matches the configured audience

### Error: "Token has expired"

OIDC tokens expire after the configured TTL (default: 10 minutes). If your tests run longer:

1. Increase the organization's `module_test_token_ttl` using the [Organizations API](/terraform/cloud-docs/api-docs/organizations)
2. Optimize your tests to complete faster
3. Ensure your test infrastructure setup is efficient

### Error: "Access denied" or "UnauthorizedOperation"

The IAM role lacks necessary permissions. Check:

1. The IAM role has appropriate permissions policies attached
2. Resource policies or SCPs aren't blocking the assumed role
3. Condition statements in permissions policies match your test runs
4. The role isn't restricted by permission boundaries

### Debugging trust policy conditions

To debug trust policy issues, enable AWS CloudTrail and examine `AssumeRoleWithWebIdentity` events. The events show which claims were present in the token and why the trust policy allowed or denied access.

You can also test the trust policy using the AWS CLI:

```bash
aws sts assume-role-with-web-identity \
  --role-arn arn:aws:iam::123456789012:role/terraform-module-test-role \
  --role-session-name test-session \
  --web-identity-token "$(cat token.jwt)"
```

This command shows the exact error message if the trust policy rejects the token.

## Next steps

- Learn about [dynamic credentials for module testing](/terraform/cloud-docs/registry/test/dynamic-credentials)
- Configure dynamic credentials for other providers:
  - [GCP configuration](/terraform/cloud-docs/registry/test/dynamic-credentials/gcp)
  - [Azure configuration](/terraform/cloud-docs/registry/test/dynamic-credentials/azure)
  - [Vault configuration](/terraform/cloud-docs/registry/test/dynamic-credentials/vault)
- Review [workload identity token specifications](/terraform/cloud-docs/dynamic-provider-credentials/workload-identity-tokens)
- Set up [policy enforcement](/terraform/cloud-docs/policy-enforcement) to require OIDC for tests

Commit message:

[TF-31940] Revise module test dynamic-credentials docs
Clarify and reformat module test dynamic-credentials documentation.

- AWS guide: clarified OIDC provider guidance, reworded instructions, standardized step formatting, and minor copy edits to trust policy and ARN examples.
- Dynamic-credentials index: removed the standalone "Benefits" section, consolidated agent version note, expanded configuration overview with UI steps, API reference, and env var guidance; added language tabs for AWS/GCP/Azure/Vault examples and a TTL recommendation table; added brief troubleshooting guidance.
- Registry test page: added "Reduced attack surface" to benefits list.
- redirects.jsonc: removed now-unnecessary redirect entries for module test dynamic-credentials paths.

These changes improve clarity, provide concrete configuration examples, and remove obsolete redirects.

content/terraform-docs-common/docs/cloud-docs/registry/test/dynamic-credentials/aws.mdx, after:

---
page_title: Use dynamic credentials with the AWS provider in module testing
description: >-
  Configure AWS IAM to trust HCP Terraform's OIDC tokens for module test runs,
  eliminating the need for static AWS credentials.
---

# Configure dynamic credentials for AWS in module testing

@include 'tfc-package-callouts/registry-test-dynamic-credentials.mdx'

You can use HCP Terraform's native OpenID Connect integration with AWS to get dynamic, short-lived credentials for module test runs. This approach eliminates the need to store static AWS credentials and improves security by using temporary credentials that automatically expire.

Before you begin, decide whether to use separate IAM roles for module tests or reuse workspace roles. Separate roles provide better isolation and allow you to grant different permissions for testing versus production workloads.

## Requirements

You need the following to configure dynamic credentials for AWS in module testing:

- An AWS account with permissions to create and configure IAM roles and OIDC providers
- An HCP Terraform organization with module testing enabled
- A private registry module with [testing configured](/terraform/cloud-docs/registry/test)
- Permissions in HCP Terraform to modify registry module test settings

## Configure AWS

Complete the following steps in AWS, then [configure HCP Terraform](#configure-hcp-terraform).

### Create an IAM OIDC provider

You only need to create one OIDC provider per AWS account and reuse it with all HCP Terraform workspaces and module tests. If you haven't already configured an OIDC identity provider for HCP Terraform in your AWS account, complete the following steps to create one:

1. Sign in to the AWS Management Console and navigate to **IAM > Identity providers**
2. Click **Add provider**
3. Select **OpenID Connect** as the provider type
4. Enter the provider URL:
   - For HCP Terraform: `https://app.terraform.io`
   - For Terraform Enterprise: `https://<your-terraform-enterprise-hostname>`.
5. Click **Get thumbprint** to automatically retrieve the thumbprint
6. For **Audience**, enter: `aws.workload.identity`
7. Click **Add provider**

### Create an IAM role for module tests

Create a dedicated IAM role that module tests assume during test runs:

1. In the AWS Management Console, navigate to **IAM > Roles**.
1. Click **Create role**.
1. Select **Web identity** as the trusted entity type.
1. Choose the OIDC provider you created in the previous step.
1. For **Audience**, select `aws.workload.identity`.
1. Click **Next**.
1. Attach permissions policies required for your module tests. Refer to [permissions recommendations](#permissions-recommendations) for more information.
1. Specify a name for the role, for example `terraform-module-test-role`.
1. Click **Create role**.

### Configure the trust policy

After creating the role, configure its trust policy to accept tokens from your module tests. The trust policy controls which HCP Terraform organizations and modules can assume the role.

1. Open the IAM role you created
2. Navigate to the **Trust relationships** tab
3. Click **Edit trust policy**
4. Update the trust policy to include module test-specific conditions:

<CodeBlockConfig hideClipboard>

```json
{
  "Version": "2012-10-17",
  "Statement": [
    {
      "Effect": "Allow",
      "Principal": {
        "Federated": "arn:aws:iam::123456789012:oidc-provider/app.terraform.io"
      },
      "Action": "sts:AssumeRoleWithWebIdentity",
      "Condition": {
        "StringEquals": {
          "app.terraform.io:aud": "aws.workload.identity"
        },
        "StringLike": {
          "app.terraform.io:sub": "organization:my-org:module:*:operation:test_run"
        }
      }
    }
  ]
}
```

</CodeBlockConfig>

Replace the following values:
- `123456789012`: Your AWS account ID
- `app.terraform.io`: Your HCP Terraform or Terraform Enterprise hostname
- `my-org`: Your organization's name. You can get the name from your organization settings page.

This trust policy allows any module in your organization to assume the role, but only during test runs (identified by the `:operation:test_run` suffix in the subject claim).

## Configure HCP Terraform

After configuring AWS, configure your registry module's test configuration to use dynamic credentials.

### Configure through the UI

1. Navigate to your private registry module in HCP Terraform
2. Click **Tests** in the module navigation
3. Click **Configuration** or **Settings**
4. In the **Dynamic Credentials** section, toggle **Enable dynamic credentials**
5. Select **AWS** as the provider
6. Enter the IAM role ARN, for example, `arn:aws:iam::123456789012:role/terraform-module-test-role`
7. (Optional) Set a custom audience if you configured a different audience in your OIDC provider
8. Click **Save configuration**

### Configure through the API

You can also configure dynamic credentials using the [Test Configuration API](/terraform/cloud-docs/api-docs/private-registry/test-configuration):

```bash
curl \
  --header "Authorization: Bearer $TOKEN" \
  --header "Content-Type: application/vnd.api+json" \
  --request PATCH \
  --data @payload.json \
  https://app.terraform.io/api/v2/registry-modules/:registry_name/:namespace/:name/:provider/test-configuration
```

With the following `payload.json`:

```json
{
  "data": {
    "type": "test-configurations",
    "attributes": {
      "oidc-enabled": true,
      "oidc-provider": "aws",
      "oidc-configuration": {
        "role-arn": "arn:aws:iam::123456789012:role/terraform-module-test-role",
        "audience": "aws.workload.identity"
      }
    }
  }
}
```

## Environment variables

When you configure dynamic credentials for AWS, HCP Terraform automatically sets the following environment variables in your module test runs:

| Variable | Description | Example Value |
|----------|-------------|---------------|
| `TFC_AWS_PROVIDER_AUTH` | Signals the AWS provider to use OIDC authentication | `true` |
| `TFC_AWS_RUN_ROLE_ARN` | The IAM role ARN to assume | `arn:aws:iam::123456789012:role/terraform-module-test-role` |
| `TFC_AWS_WORKLOAD_IDENTITY_AUDIENCE` | The audience claim for OIDC tokens | `aws.workload.identity` |
| `TFC_OIDC_ISSUER_URL` | The OIDC issuer URL | `https://app.terraform.io` |
| `TFC_OIDC_AUDIENCE` | The OIDC audience | `aws.workload.identity` |

The AWS Terraform provider version 4.67.0 and later automatically uses these environment variables to authenticate with AWS. You don't need to configure the provider block explicitly.

## Trust policy examples

The following examples show common trust policy configurations.

### Basic trust policy for all module tests

Allow all module tests in your organization to assume the role:

```json
{
  "Version": "2012-10-17",
  "Statement": [
    {
      "Effect": "Allow",
      "Principal": {
        "Federated": "arn:aws:iam::123456789012:oidc-provider/app.terraform.io"
      },
      "Action": "sts:AssumeRoleWithWebIdentity",
      "Condition": {
        "StringEquals": {
          "app.terraform.io:aud": "aws.workload.identity"
        },
        "StringLike": {
          "app.terraform.io:sub": "organization:my-org:module:*:operation:test_run"
        }
      }
    }
  ]
}
```

### Trust policy for specific module

Allow only a specific module to assume the role:

```json
{
  "Version": "2012-10-17",
  "Statement": [
    {
      "Effect": "Allow",
      "Principal": {
        "Federated": "arn:aws:iam::123456789012:oidc-provider/app.terraform.io"
      },
      "Action": "sts:AssumeRoleWithWebIdentity",
      "Condition": {
        "StringEquals": {
          "app.terraform.io:aud": "aws.workload.identity",
          "app.terraform.io:sub": "organization:my-org:module:terraform-aws-vpc:operation:test_run"
        }
      }
    }
  ]
}
```

### Trust policy with organization name claim

Add the organization name claim for additional verification:

```json
{
  "Version": "2012-10-17",
  "Statement": [
    {
      "Effect": "Allow",
      "Principal": {
        "Federated": "arn:aws:iam::123456789012:oidc-provider/app.terraform.io"
      },
      "Action": "sts:AssumeRoleWithWebIdentity",
      "Condition": {
        "StringEquals": {
          "app.terraform.io:aud": "aws.workload.identity",
          "app.terraform.io:terraform_organization_name": "my-org"
        },
        "StringLike": {
          "app.terraform.io:sub": "organization:my-org:module:*:operation:test_run"
        }
      }
    }
  ]
}
```

### Trust policy with module name pattern

Allow all AWS modules to assume the role by matching the module name in the subject claim:

```json
{
  "Version": "2012-10-17",
  "Statement": [
    {
      "Effect": "Allow",
      "Principal": {
        "Federated": "arn:aws:iam::123456789012:oidc-provider/app.terraform.io"
      },
      "Action": "sts:AssumeRoleWithWebIdentity",
      "Condition": {
        "StringEquals": {
          "app.terraform.io:aud": "aws.workload.identity"
        },
        "StringLike": {
          "app.terraform.io:sub": "organization:my-org:module:terraform-aws-*:operation:test_run"
        }
      }
    }
  ]
}
```

## Permissions recommendations

The permissions you attach to your IAM role depend on what your module tests need to do. Follow the principle of least privilege by granting only the minimum permissions required.

### Read-only testing

For modules that only need to validate configurations without creating resources:

```json
{
  "Version": "2012-10-17",
  "Statement": [
    {
      "Effect": "Allow",
      "Action": [
        "ec2:Describe*",
        "s3:List*",
        "s3:Get*",
        "iam:Get*",
        "iam:List*"
      ],
      "Resource": "*"
    }
  ]
}
```

### Resource creation for testing

For modules that create test resources, limit permissions to specific resource types and use resource tags:

```json
{
  "Version": "2012-10-17",
  "Statement": [
    {
      "Effect": "Allow",
      "Action": [
        "ec2:RunInstances",
        "ec2:TerminateInstances",
        "ec2:CreateTags",
        "ec2:Describe*"
      ],
      "Resource": "*",
      "Condition": {
        "StringEquals": {
          "aws:RequestedRegion": "us-east-1",
          "ec2:CreateAction": "RunInstances"
        }
      }
    },
    {
      "Effect": "Allow",
      "Action": [
        "ec2:TerminateInstances"
      ],
      "Resource": "arn:aws:ec2:us-east-1:123456789012:instance/*",
      "Condition": {
        "StringEquals": {
          "ec2:ResourceTag/Testing": "true"
        }
      }
    }
  ]
}
```

-> **Tip**: Use resource tags like `Testing: true` or `ManagedBy: terraform-test` to identify and scope permissions for test resources.

## Verify the configuration

After configuring both AWS and HCP Terraform, verify the setup by running a test:

1. Navigate to your module in HCP Terraform
2. Go to the **Tests** tab
3. Click **Start Test Run** or trigger a test through your VCS
4. Monitor the test run logs for successful authentication

If authentication succeeds, you'll see log output indicating the AWS provider authenticated using the OIDC token. If it fails, check the [troubleshooting](#troubleshooting) section.

## Troubleshooting

### Error: "No valid credential sources found"

This error indicates the AWS provider cannot find credentials. Check:

1. The AWS provider version is 4.67.0 or later
2. Dynamic credentials are enabled in the test configuration
3. The role ARN is correct in the test configuration
4. The `TFC_AWS_PROVIDER_AUTH` environment variable is set to `true`

### Error: "Not authorized to perform sts:AssumeRoleWithWebIdentity"

This error means the IAM role's trust policy rejected the OIDC token. Verify:

1. The OIDC provider exists in your AWS account
2. The trust policy includes the correct issuer URL (app.terraform.io or your TFE hostname)
3. The subject claim pattern matches your organization name and module, ending with `:operation:test_run`
4. The audience in the trust policy matches the configured audience

### Error: "Token has expired"

OIDC tokens expire after the configured TTL (default: 10 minutes). If your tests run longer:

1. Increase the organization's `module_test_token_ttl` using the [Organizations API](/terraform/cloud-docs/api-docs/organizations)
2. Optimize your tests to complete faster
3. Ensure your test infrastructure setup is efficient

### Error: "Access denied" or "UnauthorizedOperation"

The IAM role lacks necessary permissions. Check:

1. The IAM role has appropriate permissions policies attached
2. Resource policies or SCPs aren't blocking the assumed role
3. Condition statements in permissions policies match your test runs
4. The role isn't restricted by permission boundaries

### Debugging trust policy conditions

To debug trust policy issues, enable AWS CloudTrail and examine `AssumeRoleWithWebIdentity` events. The events show which claims were present in the token and why the trust policy allowed or denied access.

You can also test the trust policy using the AWS CLI:

```bash
aws sts assume-role-with-web-identity \
  --role-arn arn:aws:iam::123456789012:role/terraform-module-test-role \
  --role-session-name test-session \
  --web-identity-token "$(cat token.jwt)"
```

This command shows the exact error message if the trust policy rejects the token.

## Next steps

- Learn about [dynamic credentials for module testing](/terraform/cloud-docs/registry/test/dynamic-credentials)
- Configure dynamic credentials for other providers:
  - [GCP configuration](/terraform/cloud-docs/registry/test/dynamic-credentials/gcp)
  - [Azure configuration](/terraform/cloud-docs/registry/test/dynamic-credentials/azure)
  - [Vault configuration](/terraform/cloud-docs/registry/test/dynamic-credentials/vault)
- Review [workload identity token specifications](/terraform/cloud-docs/dynamic-provider-credentials/workload-identity-tokens)
- Set up [policy enforcement](/terraform/cloud-docs/policy-enforcement) to require OIDC for tests
