content/well-architected-framework/docs/docs/define-and-automate-processes/automate/deployments.mdx, before:

---
page_title: Automate infrastructure and application deployments
description: Automate deployments with infrastructure as code and container orchestration to reduce failures, enable rapid rollbacks, and eliminate drift.
---

# Automate infrastructure and application deployments

Deployment automation removes manual errors and accelerates release cycles. Manual deployment processes create inconsistent environments, increase deployment failures, and slow release cycles. Automate your deployments to reduce these risks and create a predictable, repeatable processes for both infrastructure and applications.

Use infrastructure as code to provision infrastructure and deploy applications to container orchestrators or virtual machines with immutable infrastructure patterns.

## Why automate deployments

Automating deployments addresses the following operational and security challenges:

- **Reduce deployment inconsistencies:** When you automate deployments, you reduce human error and ensure that you configure every environment identically. Manual deployments can lead to configuration drift, where environments diverge over time. Deployment automation implements consistency across development, staging, and production.

- **Reduce deployment time and risk:** Automated deployments are faster and less error-prone than manual processes. Automation enables frequent, small deployments. Manual deployments often involve multiple steps that increase the chance of mistakes and downtime.

- **Enable rapid rollback:** Automated deployments track all changes in version control, allowing you to rollback to previous states. If you manually deploy, you may not have a clear record of what changed, making it difficult to revert changes.
- **Improve audit and compliance:** Manual processes lack detailed audit trails. Automation creates logs of who deployed what and when, meeting compliance requirements and simplifying troubleshooting.

When you automate deployments, you gain the following benefits:

- **Use infrastructure as code:** Define all infrastructure in version-controlled configuration files, enabling peer review, change tracking, and rollback capabilities. [Infrastructure as code](/well-architected-framework/define-and-automate-processes/define/as-code/infrastructure) reduces configuration errors and accelerates infrastructure provisioning.

- **Adopt immutable infrastructure:** Build images with your application pre-installed rather than configuring after deployment, increasing consistency between environments and simplifying troubleshooting. [Immutable infrastructure](/well-architected-framework/define-and-automate-processes/define/immutable-infrastructure) eliminates configuration drift and reduces deployment failures.

- **Promote through environments:** Validate automation in non-production before promoting to production, catching issues early and reducing production incidents. Start with a [development environment](/well-architected-framework/define-and-automate-processes/define/development-environment), progress to staging, then deploy to production with confidence.

- **Implement progressive deployments:** Deploy changes gradually with [zero-downtime strategies](/well-architected-framework/define-and-automate-processes/deploy/zero-downtime-deployments) like blue-green or canary deployments, minimizing risk and enabling quick rollbacks when issues occur.

## Automate infrastructure with Terraform

This section explains how to use Terraform and HCP Terraform to provision and manage infrastructure with version-controlled configuration.

Use Terraform to provision and manage your application infrastructure in a predictable, repeatable way. Terraform has thousands of providers, letting you deploy to any cloud provider or platform that has an API.

Use HCP Terraform when you have multiple team members making infrastructure changes, need policy enforcement, or want managed runners. HCP Terraform manages Terraform runs in a consistent and reliable environment, securely stores your state files, and enables team collaboration. 

HCP Terraform includes the following key features:

- Collaborate on your infrastructure management with remote state storage and Terraform operations
- Connect to your VCS provider for infrastructure development workflows
- Store modules in a private registry for code reuse
- Run tasks to integrate third-party services during deployment
- Granular access controls for team permissions
- Policy enforcement with Sentinel for configuration guardrails

The following is an example of a Terraform configuration that provisions infrastructure:

```hcl
terraform {
  required_providers {
    aws = {
      source  = "hashicorp/aws"
      version = "~> 5.0"
    }
  }
}

provider "aws" {
  region = "us-west-2"
}

resource "aws_instance" "app" {
  ami           = "ami-12345678"  # AMI built with Packer
  instance_type = "t3.micro"

  tags = {
    Name        = "application-server"
    Environment = "production"
  }
}
```

This configuration configures the AWS provider and provisions an EC2 instance using an AMI built with Packer. HCP Terraform allows your team to share the same state file, decreasing the chances of conflicts when multiple people make infrastructure changes.

If you are [building AMIs with Packer](/well-architected-framework/define-and-automate-processes/automate/packaging#machine-image-packaging), you can reference the image in Terraform using the AMI ID that Packer outputs. You can use a Terraform data source to dynamically query for the latest AMI by tag, ensuring you always deploy the most recent version:

```hcl
# Query for the latest Packer-built AMI
data "aws_ami" "app" {
  most_recent = true
  owners      = ["self"]

  filter {
    name   = "tag:Name"
    values = ["myapp"]
  }

  filter {
    name   = "tag:Version"
    values = ["1.0.0"]
  }
}

resource "aws_instance" "app" {
  ami           = data.aws_ami.app.id  # References the Packer-built AMI
  instance_type = "t3.micro"

  tags = {
    Name        = "application-server"
    Environment = "production"
  }
}
```

This data source queries your AWS account for the most recent AMI tagged with `Name=myapp` and `Version=1.0.0`. When you run `terraform apply`, Terraform uses the AMI ID from the data source to launch instances with your pre-packaged application. This approach eliminates hardcoded AMI IDs and ensures you deploy the correct version.

To learn more about Terraform configuration syntax and how to apply this configuration, visit the [Terraform getting started tutorials](/terraform/tutorials/aws-get-started).

## Automate application deployment

Your application deployment strategy depends on your workload and operational requirements. After [packaging your application](/well-architected-framework/define-and-automate-processes/automate/packaging) into container or machine images, deploy these immutable artifacts using Terraform or a container orchestrator.

The deployment workflow follows these steps:

1. **Build images:** Use Packer to create container images or machine images with your application pre-installed. Packer outputs the image ID or tag (for example, AMI ID `ami-0abcd1234efgh5678` or container tag `myregistry/myapp:1.0.0`).
1. **Store artifacts:** Push container images to a registry (Docker Hub, ECR, ACR, GCR) using `docker push` or a post-processor. Machine images are automatically stored in your cloud provider during the Packer build. You can use HCP Packer to store metadata about your machine images to make it easier to automatically find the image you need.
1. **Deploy:** Reference the stored images in your Terraform or container orchestrator configuration using the image ID, tag, or a data source query.
1. **Manage lifecycle:** Use Terraform or your container orchestrator to update deployments when new image versions are available by updating the image reference and applying the changes.

## Manage Kubernetes with Terraform

Kubernetes automates deployment and scaling of containerized workloads with extensive ecosystem support. Use Kubernetes when you need advanced networking features, extensive third-party integrations, or multi-cloud container deployments. The Terraform Kubernetes provider lets you deploy and manage workloads through the Kubernetes API. Deploy Helm packages with the Helm Terraform provider.

Before deploying applications to Kubernetes with Terraform, you need a running Kubernetes cluster and kubectl configured to access it. The Terraform Kubernetes provider requires API access to your cluster to manage resources. 

The following example assumes your cluster is configured and you have pushed a container image to a registry. This Terraform configuration deploys a containerized application to Kubernetes:

```hcl
resource "kubernetes_deployment" "app" {
  metadata {
    name = "myapp"
    labels = {
      app = "myapp"
    }
  }

  spec {
    replicas = 3

    selector {
      match_labels = {
        app = "myapp"
      }
    }

    template {
      metadata {
        labels = {
          app = "myapp"
        }
      }

      spec {
        container {
          name  = "myapp"
          image = "myregistry.azurecr.io/myapp:1.0.0"  # Container image built with Packer

          port {
            container_port = 8080
          }

          resources {
            requests = {
              cpu    = "100m"
              memory = "128Mi"
            }
            limits = {
              cpu    = "500m"
              memory = "512Mi"
            }
          }
        }
      }
    }
  }
}

resource "kubernetes_service" "app" {
  metadata {
    name = "myapp-service"
  }

  spec {
    selector = {
      app = kubernetes_deployment.app.metadata[0].labels.app
    }

    port {
      port        = 80
      target_port = 8080
    }

    type = "LoadBalancer"
  }
}
```

This configuration deploys three replicas of a containerized application to Kubernetes, defines resource requests and limits for predictable performance, and creates a LoadBalancer service to expose the application externally.

## Manage Nomad with Terraform

Nomad orchestrates containers, standalone binaries, and batch jobs with simplified operations and better resource efficiency. Use Nomad when you need to manage diverse workload types, prefer streamlined operations, or require higher density and performance. Use the Terraform Nomad provider to manage workloads as code, or use Nomad Pack for templating and package management.

Before deploying applications to Nomad with Terraform, you need a running Nomad cluster. The following example assumes your cluster is configured and you have pushed a container image to a registry. This Terraform configuration deploys a containerized application to Nomad:

```hcl
resource "nomad_job" "app" {
  jobspec = <<EOT
job "myapp" {
  datacenters = ["dc1"]
  type        = "service"

  group "app" {
    count = 3

    task "myapp" {
      driver = "docker"

      config {
        image = "myregistry.azurecr.io/myapp:1.0.0"  # Container image built with Packer
        ports = ["http"]
      }

      resources {
        cpu    = 500
        memory = 512
      }

      service {
        name = "myapp"
        port = "http"

        check {
          type     = "http"
          path     = "/health"
          interval = "10s"
          timeout  = "2s"
        }
      }
    }

    network {
      port "http" {
        static = 8080
      }
    }
  }
}
EOT
}
```

This configuration deploys three instances of a containerized application to Nomad, defines resource allocations, and configures health checks to ensure the application is running correctly before routing traffic to it.

HashiCorp resources:

- Learn how to use [Terraform to deploy your tools](/well-architected-framework/define-and-automate-processes/define/as-code) such as container orchestration, database infrastructure, and version control systems.
- Learn how to [package applications](/well-architected-framework/define-and-automate-processes/automate/packaging) with Packer.
- Use [infrastructure as code](/well-architected-framework/define-and-automate-processes/define/as-code/infrastructure) to define infrastructure.
- Create reusable [Terraform modules](/well-architected-framework/define-and-automate-processes/define/modules) to standardize infrastructure deployments
- Use [version control](/well-architected-framework/define-and-automate-processes/define/version-control) to store infrastructure configurations
- Implement a [GitOps workflow](/well-architected-framework/define-and-automate-processes/process-automation/gitops) to create a fully auditable, and version-controlled deployment process.
- Learn Terraform with the [Terraform tutorials](/terraform/tutorials) and the [Terraform documentation](/terraform/docs)
- Get started with [AWS](/terraform/tutorials/aws-get-started), [Azure](/terraform/tutorials/azure-get-started), or [GCP](/terraform/tutorials/gcp-get-started)

To learn how to deploy applications to Kubernetes with Terraform:

- Learn how to deploy [Federated Multi-Cloud Kubernetes Clusters](/terraform/tutorials/kubernetes/multicloud-kubernetes)
- Read the [Terraform Kubernetes provider documentation](https://registry.terraform.io/providers/hashicorp/kubernetes/latest/docs) for resource syntax and configuration options
- Learn how to [Schedule deployments with Terraform](/terraform/tutorials/kubernetes/kubernetes-operator-v2)
- Deploy Helm packages with the [Helm Terraform provider](https://registry.terraform.io/providers/hashicorp/helm/latest/docs)
- Explore [Kubernetes tutorials](/terraform/tutorials/kubernetes) for deployment patterns and workflows

To learn how to deploy applications to Nomad with Terraform:

- Learn how to [Deploy a Nomad cluster on AWS](/nomad/tutorials/get-started/get-started-install)
- Read the [Terraform Nomad provider documentation](https://registry.terraform.io/providers/hashicorp/nomad/latest/docs) for job management and configuration
- Explore [Nomad tutorials](/nomad/tutorials) for application deployment examples

## Next steps

In this section of Automate your workflows, you learned how to automate deployments for both infrastructure and applications. Automated deployments are part of the [Define and automate processes pillar](/well-architected-framework/define-and-automate-processes).

Visit the following documents to learn more about the automation workflow:

- Implement small, frequent infrastructure deployments with [atomic deployments](/well-architected-framework/define-and-automate-processes/deploy/atomic-deployments).
- Implement [zero-downtime deployments](/well-architected-framework/define-and-automate-processes/deploy/zero-downtime-deployments).
- [Create CI/CD pipelines](/well-architected-framework/define-and-automate-processes/automate/cicd) to automate infrastructure and application deployments.

Commit message:

Fix style guide violations and add cross-document links
Style guide compliance fixes (24 issues):
- Replace vague pronouns with specific names (21 fixes)
  - Changed 'This configuration' to 'The Terraform configuration'
  - Changed 'This template' to 'The Packer template'
  - Changed 'This workflow' to 'The GitHub Actions workflow'
  - And similar fixes across all code examples
- Fix list introduction grammar (3 fixes)
  - Add 'the following' where required
  - Remove redundant 'the following' usage

Cross-document linking improvements (15 links):
- Add immutable infrastructure, semi-automated, and fully-automated links to deployments.mdx
- Add packaging and deployments links to immutable-infrastructure/index.mdx
- Add testing links to containers.mdx and virtual-machines.mdx
- Add packaging and testing links to zero-downtime-deployments/infrastructure.mdx
- Add testing and infrastructure as code links to zero-downtime-deployments/applications.mdx
- Add testing and deployments links to zero-downtime-deployments/service-mesh.mdx
- Fix spacing bug in containers.mdx (and[fully → and [fully)

Files modified: 14
- automate/deployments.mdx
- automate/packaging.mdx
- automate/testing.mdx
- define/as-code/infrastructure.mdx
- define/immutable-infrastructure/index.mdx
- define/immutable-infrastructure/containers.mdx
- define/immutable-infrastructure/virtual-machines.mdx
- deploy/atomic-deployments.mdx
- deploy/zero-downtime-deployments/applications.mdx
- deploy/zero-downtime-deployments/infrastructure.mdx
- deploy/zero-downtime-deployments/service-mesh.mdx
- process-automation/fully-automated.mdx
- process-automation/gitops.mdx
- process-automation/semi-automated.mdx

These changes improve clarity, follow HashiCorp style guide requirements,
and create better document interconnectivity for user navigation.

content/well-architected-framework/docs/docs/define-and-automate-processes/automate/deployments.mdx, after:

---
page_title: Automate infrastructure and application deployments
description: Automate deployments with infrastructure as code and container orchestration to reduce failures, enable rapid rollbacks, and eliminate drift.
---

# Automate infrastructure and application deployments

Deployment automation removes manual errors and accelerates release cycles. Manual deployment processes create inconsistent environments, increase deployment failures, and slow release cycles. Automate your deployments to reduce these risks and create a predictable, repeatable processes for both infrastructure and applications.

Use infrastructure as code to provision infrastructure and deploy applications to container orchestrators or virtual machines with immutable infrastructure patterns.

## Why automate deployments

Automating deployments addresses the following operational and security challenges:

- **Reduce deployment inconsistencies:** When you automate deployments, you reduce human error and ensure that you configure every environment identically. Manual deployments can lead to configuration drift, where environments diverge over time. Deployment automation implements consistency across development, staging, and production.

- **Reduce deployment time and risk:** Automated deployments are faster and less error-prone than manual processes. Automation enables frequent, small deployments. Manual deployments often involve multiple steps that increase the chance of mistakes and downtime.

- **Enable rapid rollback:** Automated deployments track all changes in version control, allowing you to rollback to previous states. If you manually deploy, you may not have a clear record of what changed, making it difficult to revert changes.
- **Improve audit and compliance:** Manual processes lack detailed audit trails. Automation creates logs of who deployed what and when, meeting compliance requirements and simplifying troubleshooting.

When you automate deployments, you gain the following benefits:

- **Use infrastructure as code:** Define all infrastructure in version-controlled configuration files, enabling peer review, change tracking, and rollback capabilities. [Infrastructure as code](/well-architected-framework/define-and-automate-processes/define/as-code/infrastructure) reduces configuration errors and accelerates infrastructure provisioning.

- **Adopt immutable infrastructure:** Build images with your application pre-installed rather than configuring after deployment, increasing consistency between environments and simplifying troubleshooting. [Immutable infrastructure](/well-architected-framework/define-and-automate-processes/define/immutable-infrastructure) eliminates configuration drift and reduces deployment failures.

- **Promote through environments:** Validate automation in non-production before promoting to production, catching issues early and reducing production incidents. Start with a [development environment](/well-architected-framework/define-and-automate-processes/define/development-environment), progress to staging, then deploy to production with confidence.

- **Implement progressive deployments:** Deploy changes gradually with [zero-downtime strategies](/well-architected-framework/define-and-automate-processes/deploy/zero-downtime-deployments) like blue-green or canary deployments, minimizing risk and enabling quick rollbacks when issues occur.

## Automate infrastructure with Terraform

This section explains how to use Terraform and HCP Terraform to provision and manage infrastructure with version-controlled configuration.

Use Terraform to provision and manage your application infrastructure in a predictable, repeatable way. Terraform has thousands of providers, letting you deploy to any cloud provider or platform that has an API.

Use HCP Terraform when you have multiple team members making infrastructure changes, need policy enforcement, or want managed runners. HCP Terraform manages Terraform runs in a consistent and reliable environment, securely stores your state files, and enables team collaboration. 

HCP Terraform includes the following key features:

- Collaborate on your infrastructure management with remote state storage and Terraform operations
- Connect to your VCS provider for infrastructure development workflows
- Store modules in a private registry for code reuse
- Run tasks to integrate third-party services during deployment
- Granular access controls for team permissions
- Policy enforcement with Sentinel for configuration guardrails

The following is an example of a Terraform configuration that provisions infrastructure:

```hcl
terraform {
  required_providers {
    aws = {
      source  = "hashicorp/aws"
      version = "~> 5.0"
    }
  }
}

provider "aws" {
  region = "us-west-2"
}

resource "aws_instance" "app" {
  ami           = "ami-12345678"  # AMI built with Packer
  instance_type = "t3.micro"

  tags = {
    Name        = "application-server"
    Environment = "production"
  }
}
```

This configuration configures the AWS provider and provisions an EC2 instance using an AMI built with Packer. HCP Terraform allows your team to share the same state file, decreasing the chances of conflicts when multiple people make infrastructure changes.

If you are [building AMIs with Packer](/well-architected-framework/define-and-automate-processes/automate/packaging#machine-image-packaging), you can reference the image in Terraform using the AMI ID that Packer outputs. You can use a Terraform data source to dynamically query for the latest AMI by tag, ensuring you always deploy the most recent version:

```hcl
# Query for the latest Packer-built AMI
data "aws_ami" "app" {
  most_recent = true
  owners      = ["self"]

  filter {
    name   = "tag:Name"
    values = ["myapp"]
  }

  filter {
    name   = "tag:Version"
    values = ["1.0.0"]
  }
}

resource "aws_instance" "app" {
  ami           = data.aws_ami.app.id  # References the Packer-built AMI
  instance_type = "t3.micro"

  tags = {
    Name        = "application-server"
    Environment = "production"
  }
}
```

The data source queries your AWS account for the most recent AMI tagged with `Name=myapp` and `Version=1.0.0`. When you run `terraform apply`, Terraform uses the AMI ID from the data source to launch instances with your pre-packaged application. Using data sources eliminates hardcoded AMI IDs and ensures you deploy the correct version.

To learn more about Terraform configuration syntax and how to apply this configuration, visit the [Terraform getting started tutorials](/terraform/tutorials/aws-get-started).

## Automate application deployment

Your application deployment strategy depends on your workload and operational requirements. After [packaging your application](/well-architected-framework/define-and-automate-processes/automate/packaging) into container or machine images, deploy these immutable artifacts using Terraform or a container orchestrator.

The deployment workflow follows these steps:

1. **Build images:** Use Packer to create container images or machine images with your application pre-installed. Packer outputs the image ID or tag (for example, AMI ID `ami-0abcd1234efgh5678` or container tag `myregistry/myapp:1.0.0`).
1. **Store artifacts:** Push container images to a registry (Docker Hub, ECR, ACR, GCR) using `docker push` or a post-processor. Machine images are automatically stored in your cloud provider during the Packer build. You can use HCP Packer to store metadata about your machine images to make it easier to automatically find the image you need.
1. **Deploy:** Reference the stored images in your Terraform or container orchestrator configuration using the image ID, tag, or a data source query.
1. **Manage lifecycle:** Use Terraform or your container orchestrator to update deployments when new image versions are available by updating the image reference and applying the changes.

## Manage Kubernetes with Terraform

Kubernetes automates deployment and scaling of containerized workloads with extensive ecosystem support. Use Kubernetes when you need advanced networking features, extensive third-party integrations, or multi-cloud container deployments. The Terraform Kubernetes provider lets you deploy and manage workloads through the Kubernetes API. Deploy Helm packages with the Helm Terraform provider.

Before deploying applications to Kubernetes with Terraform, you need a running Kubernetes cluster and kubectl configured to access it. The Terraform Kubernetes provider requires API access to your cluster to manage resources. 

The following example assumes your cluster is configured and you have pushed a container image to a registry. This Terraform configuration deploys a containerized application to Kubernetes:

```hcl
resource "kubernetes_deployment" "app" {
  metadata {
    name = "myapp"
    labels = {
      app = "myapp"
    }
  }

  spec {
    replicas = 3

    selector {
      match_labels = {
        app = "myapp"
      }
    }

    template {
      metadata {
        labels = {
          app = "myapp"
        }
      }

      spec {
        container {
          name  = "myapp"
          image = "myregistry.azurecr.io/myapp:1.0.0"  # Container image built with Packer

          port {
            container_port = 8080
          }

          resources {
            requests = {
              cpu    = "100m"
              memory = "128Mi"
            }
            limits = {
              cpu    = "500m"
              memory = "512Mi"
            }
          }
        }
      }
    }
  }
}

resource "kubernetes_service" "app" {
  metadata {
    name = "myapp-service"
  }

  spec {
    selector = {
      app = kubernetes_deployment.app.metadata[0].labels.app
    }

    port {
      port        = 80
      target_port = 8080
    }

    type = "LoadBalancer"
  }
}
```

The Kubernetes Deployment creates three replicas of a containerized application, defines resource requests and limits for predictable performance, and creates a LoadBalancer service to expose the application externally.

## Manage Nomad with Terraform

Nomad orchestrates containers, standalone binaries, and batch jobs with simplified operations and better resource efficiency. Use Nomad when you need to manage diverse workload types, prefer streamlined operations, or require higher density and performance. Use the Terraform Nomad provider to manage workloads as code, or use Nomad Pack for templating and package management.

Before deploying applications to Nomad with Terraform, you need a running Nomad cluster. The following example assumes your cluster is configured and you have pushed a container image to a registry. This Terraform configuration deploys a containerized application to Nomad:

```hcl
resource "nomad_job" "app" {
  jobspec = <<EOT
job "myapp" {
  datacenters = ["dc1"]
  type        = "service"

  group "app" {
    count = 3

    task "myapp" {
      driver = "docker"

      config {
        image = "myregistry.azurecr.io/myapp:1.0.0"  # Container image built with Packer
        ports = ["http"]
      }

      resources {
        cpu    = 500
        memory = 512
      }

      service {
        name = "myapp"
        port = "http"

        check {
          type     = "http"
          path     = "/health"
          interval = "10s"
          timeout  = "2s"
        }
      }
    }

    network {
      port "http" {
        static = 8080
      }
    }
  }
}
EOT
}
```

The Nomad job specification deploys three instances of a containerized application, defines resource allocations, and configures health checks to ensure the application is running correctly before routing traffic to it.

HashiCorp resources:

- Learn how to use [Terraform to deploy your tools](/well-architected-framework/define-and-automate-processes/define/as-code) such as container orchestration, database infrastructure, and version control systems.
- Learn how to [package applications](/well-architected-framework/define-and-automate-processes/automate/packaging) with Packer.
- Use [infrastructure as code](/well-architected-framework/define-and-automate-processes/define/as-code/infrastructure) to define infrastructure.
- Create [immutable infrastructure](/well-architected-framework/define-and-automate-processes/define/immutable-infrastructure) with Packer and Terraform
- Implement [semi-automated deployments](/well-architected-framework/define-and-automate-processes/process-automation/semi-automated) with infrastructure as code
- Implement [fully-automated deployments](/well-architected-framework/define-and-automate-processes/process-automation/fully-automated) with CI/CD pipelines
- Create reusable [Terraform modules](/well-architected-framework/define-and-automate-processes/define/modules) to standardize infrastructure deployments
- Use [version control](/well-architected-framework/define-and-automate-processes/define/version-control) to store infrastructure configurations
- Implement a [GitOps workflow](/well-architected-framework/define-and-automate-processes/process-automation/gitops) to create a fully auditable, and version-controlled deployment process.
- Learn Terraform with the [Terraform tutorials](/terraform/tutorials) and the [Terraform documentation](/terraform/docs)
- Get started with [AWS](/terraform/tutorials/aws-get-started), [Azure](/terraform/tutorials/azure-get-started), or [GCP](/terraform/tutorials/gcp-get-started)

To learn how to deploy applications to Kubernetes with Terraform:

- Learn how to deploy [Federated Multi-Cloud Kubernetes Clusters](/terraform/tutorials/kubernetes/multicloud-kubernetes)
- Read the [Terraform Kubernetes provider documentation](https://registry.terraform.io/providers/hashicorp/kubernetes/latest/docs) for resource syntax and configuration options
- Learn how to [Schedule deployments with Terraform](/terraform/tutorials/kubernetes/kubernetes-operator-v2)
- Deploy Helm packages with the [Helm Terraform provider](https://registry.terraform.io/providers/hashicorp/helm/latest/docs)
- Explore [Kubernetes tutorials](/terraform/tutorials/kubernetes) for deployment patterns and workflows

To learn how to deploy applications to Nomad with Terraform:

- Learn how to [Deploy a Nomad cluster on AWS](/nomad/tutorials/get-started/get-started-install)
- Read the [Terraform Nomad provider documentation](https://registry.terraform.io/providers/hashicorp/nomad/latest/docs) for job management and configuration
- Explore [Nomad tutorials](/nomad/tutorials) for application deployment examples

## Next steps

In this section of Automate your workflows, you learned how to automate deployments for both infrastructure and applications. Automated deployments are part of the [Define and automate processes pillar](/well-architected-framework/define-and-automate-processes).

Visit the following documents to learn more about the automation workflow:

- Implement small, frequent infrastructure deployments with [atomic deployments](/well-architected-framework/define-and-automate-processes/deploy/atomic-deployments).
- Implement [zero-downtime deployments](/well-architected-framework/define-and-automate-processes/deploy/zero-downtime-deployments).
- [Create CI/CD pipelines](/well-architected-framework/define-and-automate-processes/automate/cicd) to automate infrastructure and application deployments.
