content/terraform-enterprise/1.1.x/docs/enterprise/deploy/initial-admin-user.mdx, before:

---
page_title: Create the initial admin user for Terraform Enterprise
description: >-
  You must create an admin user to manage Terraform Enterprise and run workloads. Learn how to create the initial admin user in Terraform Enterprise.
---

# Create initial Terraform Enterprise admin user

This topic describes how to create the initial admin user for managing the Terraform Enterprise application and run workloads. Create the initial admin user after installing Terraform Enterprise. Refer to [Deploy Terraform Enterprise](/terraform/enterprise/deploy) for additional information about the deployment process. 

## Overview

Complete the following steps to create the initial admin user:

1. **Retrieve the initial admin creation token**: The initial admin creation token (IACT) is available for a limited time after starting Terraform Enterprise. You must present the token to authenticate your request to create an admin user.   
1. **Create initial admin user**: You can create the initial admin user in two ways: using the browser or directly from the container or pod.

## Requirements

Terraform Enteprise must not have any other users in the system when creating an admin user by presenting the IACT.

## Retrieve initial admin creation token

You may set the initial admin creation token in [`TFE_IACT_TOKEN` setting reference](/terraform/enterprise/deploy/reference/configuration#tfe_iact_token) if desired. If it is set, you may proceed to [Create initial admin user](#create-initial-admin-user). 

If this value is not set, a random token will be generated. By default, you have 60 minutes to retrieve the IACT upon start up. Refer to the [`TFE_IACT_TIME_LIMIT` setting reference](/terraform/enterprise/deploy/reference/configuration#tfe_iact_time_limit) for additional information about changing the time limit. 

You can retrieve the IACT from the Terraform Enterprise UI or from the Terraform Enterprise container or pod.

### UI

Navigate to `https://${TFE_HOSTNAME}/admin/retrieve-iact` in your browser on a workstation to retrieve your token. The host name is one of the addresses specified in the [`TFE_IACT_SUBNETS` setting](/terraform/enterprise/deploy/reference/configuration#tfe_iact_subnets). 


### Container or pod

You can retrieve your IACT token directly from the Terraform Enterprise container or pod:

<Tabs>
  <Tab heading="Kubernetes">

Run the following command to retrieve your IACT token from a Kubernetes pod.
```shell-session
$ kubectl exec -it -n <TFE_NAMESPACE> <POD_NAME> -- tfectl admin token
```

  </Tab>
  <Tab heading="Docker">

Run the following command to retrieve your IACT token from a Docker container.
```shell-session
$ docker exec <CONTAINER_NAME> tfectl admin token
```

  </Tab>
  <Tab heading="Podman">

Run the following command to retrieve your IACT token from a Podman container.
```shell-session
$ podman exec -it <CONTAINER_NAME> tfectl admin token
```

  </Tab>

  <Tab heading="Nomad">

Run the following command to retrieve your IACT token from a Nomad allocation.
```shell-session
$ nomad alloc exec -namespace=<TFE_NAMESPACE> -it -task <TFE_TASK_NAME> <ALLOCATION_ID> tfectl admin token
```
  </Tab>
</Tabs>

## Create initial admin user

You can create the initial admin user in the Terraform Enterprise UI or by sending a `POST` request to the `/admin/initial-admin-user` API endpoint.

### UI

1. Navigate to `https://${TFE_HOSTNAME}/admin/account/new?token=${IACT_TOKEN}` in your browser on a workstation. The host name is one of the addresses specified in the [`TFE_IACT_SUBNETS` setting](/terraform/enterprise/deploy/reference/configuration#tfe_iact_subnets). 
1. When prompted, complete the steps to create the admin user.

### Container or pod

1. Create a JSON document with the username, email address, and password for the admin user you want to create. Refer to [`initial-admin-user` reference documentation](/terraform/enterprise/api-docs/admin/initial-admin-user) for additional information.  

   The following example payload creates a user named `manage`:
 
   ```json
  {
    "username": "manage",
    "email": "it@mycompany.com",
    "password": "thisisabadpassword"
  }
  ```

1. Send a `POST` request to the `/admin/initial-admin-user` endpoint. You must present the IACT token. Refer to [Retrieve initial admin creation token](#retrieve-initial-admin-creation-token) for instructions. 

  The following example sends the initial admin user details in a file called `payload.json`:
  ```shell
  curl \
    --header "Content-Type: application/json" \
    --request POST \
    --data @payload.json \
    https://${TFE_HOSTNAME}/admin/initial-admin-user?token=${IACT_TOKEN}
  ```

The API returns a `created` status response:

```json
{
  "status": "created",
  "token": "aabbccdd.v1.atlas.ddeeffgghhiijjkkllmmnnooppqqrrssttuuvvxxyyzz"
}
```

Commit message:

Specify password length for admin user creation
Added password length requirement for initial admin user.

content/terraform-enterprise/1.1.x/docs/enterprise/deploy/initial-admin-user.mdx, after:

---
page_title: Create the initial admin user for Terraform Enterprise
description: >-
  You must create an admin user to manage Terraform Enterprise and run workloads. Learn how to create the initial admin user in Terraform Enterprise.
---

# Create initial Terraform Enterprise admin user

This topic describes how to create the initial admin user for managing the Terraform Enterprise application and run workloads. Create the initial admin user after installing Terraform Enterprise. Refer to [Deploy Terraform Enterprise](/terraform/enterprise/deploy) for additional information about the deployment process. 

## Overview

Complete the following steps to create the initial admin user:

1. **Retrieve the initial admin creation token**: The initial admin creation token (IACT) is available for a limited time after starting Terraform Enterprise. You must present the token to authenticate your request to create an admin user.   
1. **Create initial admin user**: You can create the initial admin user in two ways: using the browser or directly from the container or pod.

## Requirements

Terraform Enteprise must not have any other users in the system when creating an admin user by presenting the IACT.
The password must be at least 10 characters long. There are no restrictions on special characters. 

## Retrieve initial admin creation token

You may set the initial admin creation token in [`TFE_IACT_TOKEN` setting reference](/terraform/enterprise/deploy/reference/configuration#tfe_iact_token) if desired. If it is set, you may proceed to [Create initial admin user](#create-initial-admin-user). 

If this value is not set, a random token will be generated. By default, you have 60 minutes to retrieve the IACT upon start up. Refer to the [`TFE_IACT_TIME_LIMIT` setting reference](/terraform/enterprise/deploy/reference/configuration#tfe_iact_time_limit) for additional information about changing the time limit. 

You can retrieve the IACT from the Terraform Enterprise UI or from the Terraform Enterprise container or pod.

### UI

Navigate to `https://${TFE_HOSTNAME}/admin/retrieve-iact` in your browser on a workstation to retrieve your token. The host name is one of the addresses specified in the [`TFE_IACT_SUBNETS` setting](/terraform/enterprise/deploy/reference/configuration#tfe_iact_subnets). 


### Container or pod

You can retrieve your IACT token directly from the Terraform Enterprise container or pod:

<Tabs>
  <Tab heading="Kubernetes">

Run the following command to retrieve your IACT token from a Kubernetes pod.
```shell-session
$ kubectl exec -it -n <TFE_NAMESPACE> <POD_NAME> -- tfectl admin token
```

  </Tab>
  <Tab heading="Docker">

Run the following command to retrieve your IACT token from a Docker container.
```shell-session
$ docker exec <CONTAINER_NAME> tfectl admin token
```

  </Tab>
  <Tab heading="Podman">

Run the following command to retrieve your IACT token from a Podman container.
```shell-session
$ podman exec -it <CONTAINER_NAME> tfectl admin token
```

  </Tab>

  <Tab heading="Nomad">

Run the following command to retrieve your IACT token from a Nomad allocation.
```shell-session
$ nomad alloc exec -namespace=<TFE_NAMESPACE> -it -task <TFE_TASK_NAME> <ALLOCATION_ID> tfectl admin token
```
  </Tab>
</Tabs>

## Create initial admin user

You can create the initial admin user in the Terraform Enterprise UI or by sending a `POST` request to the `/admin/initial-admin-user` API endpoint.

### UI

1. Navigate to `https://${TFE_HOSTNAME}/admin/account/new?token=${IACT_TOKEN}` in your browser on a workstation. The host name is one of the addresses specified in the [`TFE_IACT_SUBNETS` setting](/terraform/enterprise/deploy/reference/configuration#tfe_iact_subnets). 
1. When prompted, complete the steps to create the admin user.

### Container or pod

1. Create a JSON document with the username, email address, and password for the admin user you want to create. Refer to [`initial-admin-user` reference documentation](/terraform/enterprise/api-docs/admin/initial-admin-user) for additional information.  

   The following example payload creates a user named `manage`:
 
   ```json
  {
    "username": "manage",
    "email": "it@mycompany.com",
    "password": "thisisabadpassword"
  }
  ```

1. Send a `POST` request to the `/admin/initial-admin-user` endpoint. You must present the IACT token. Refer to [Retrieve initial admin creation token](#retrieve-initial-admin-creation-token) for instructions. 

  The following example sends the initial admin user details in a file called `payload.json`:
  ```shell
  curl \
    --header "Content-Type: application/json" \
    --request POST \
    --data @payload.json \
    https://${TFE_HOSTNAME}/admin/initial-admin-user?token=${IACT_TOKEN}
  ```

The API returns a `created` status response:

```json
{
  "status": "created",
  "token": "aabbccdd.v1.atlas.ddeeffgghhiijjkkllmmnnooppqqrrssttuuvvxxyyzz"
}
```
