content/well-architected-framework/docs/docs/define-and-automate-processes/define/immutable-infrastructure/virtual-machines.mdx, before:

---
page_title: Create immutable virtual machines
description: Create immutable virtual machines by building images with Packer and deploying them with Terraform.
---

# Create immutable virtual machines

Immutable virtual machines package your entire application stack, including the operating system, dependencies, and application code, into unchangeable machine images that you build once and deploy across all environments. You build machine images with Packer, deploy them with Terraform, and never modify running virtual machines. When you need to make changes, you rebuild the image with your updates and deploy new virtual machines to replace the old ones. The following sections explain why you should use immutable virtual machines, how to build machine images with Packer, and how to deploy them with Terraform.

## Why use immutable virtual machines

Immutable virtual machines address the following operational challenges:

- **Eliminate configuration drift:** Immutable virtual machines prevent drift by deploying identical machine images, ensuring every VM across all environments matches your defined configuration exactly.

- **Prevent manual change errors:** Manual updates through SSH introduce human error—typos in commands, forgotten steps, or changes applied to wrong servers cause outages. Immutable virtual machines remove the need for manual server access, applying all changes through tested, version-controlled machine images.

- **Enable reliable rollbacks:** When VM updates fail, rolling back requires remembering what changed and manually reversing those changes across multiple servers. Immutable virtual machines enable rollbacks by redeploying the previous machine image version without troubleshooting what changed.

## Build machine images with Packer

Building machine images involves defining your application, dependencies, and operating system configurations as code, then using that code to produce a cloud-specific machine image like an AWS AMI, Azure image, or GCP image. The image contains your complete application stack—the operating system, runtime dependencies, your application code, and system configurations. Once built, the image is immutable and ready for deployment across all environments.

Packer automates machine image creation by launching a temporary instance, provisioning it with your application and dependencies using tools like Ansible, shell scripts, or configuration management tools, creating an image snapshot, and terminating the temporary instance. The resulting machine image is tagged with version information and stored in your cloud provider's image repository.

Learn how to build machine images in [Package applications with containers and machine images](/well-architected-framework/define-and-automate-processes/automate/packaging).

## Deploy immutable VMs with Terraform

Terraform deploys immutable virtual machines by querying your most recent Packer-built machine image and creating VM instances from it. When you update your application, Terraform detects the new machine image and replaces old instances with new ones.

### Query machine images dynamically

Terraform data sources query your cloud provider to find machine images built by Packer, removing hardcoded image IDs. Using data sources connects your Packer and Terraform workflows, ensuring Terraform always deploys your latest machine image.

The following Terraform configuration queries the most recent Packer-built AMI:

```hcl
terraform {
  required_providers {
    aws = {
      source  = "hashicorp/aws"
      version = "~> 6.0"
    }
  }
}

provider "aws" {
  region = "us-east-1"
}

data "aws_ami" "web_app" {
  most_recent = true
  owners      = ["self"]

  filter {
    name   = "name"
    values = ["web-app-*"]
  }

  filter {
    name   = "tag:Built-By"
    values = ["packer"]
  }
}

output "ami_id" {
  value       = data.aws_ami.web_app.id
  description = "Most recent web application AMI"
}

output "ami_name" {
  value       = data.aws_ami.web_app.name
  description = "Name of the AMI"
}
```

The data source queries AWS for the most recent AMI with name pattern "web-app-*" and tag "Built-By: packer". Every time you run `terraform plan` or `terraform apply`, Terraform queries for the latest image, automatically detecting when you've built a new AMI with Packer. Using data sources eliminates manual AMI ID updates in your Terraform code.

## Immutable VM workflow

The complete workflow for immutable virtual machines includes the following steps:

1. **Build the machine image:** Create a Packer template defining your application, dependencies, and OS configuration. Run `packer build` to create the machine image and upload it to your cloud provider.

1. **Create infrastructure code:** Write Terraform configuration that uses data sources to query your most recent Packer-built image. Define Auto Scaling Groups with instance refresh enabled to handle immutable updates.

1. **Deploy the infrastructure:** Run `terraform apply` to create your Auto Scaling Group and related infrastructure. Terraform queries the latest machine image and deploys instances from it.

1. **Update and redeploy:** When you need to update your application, modify your Packer template, run `packer build` to create a new machine image, then run `terraform apply`. Terraform detects the new image and triggers an instance refresh, gradually replacing old instances with new ones.

1. **Rollback if needed:** If the new version causes issues, run `packer build` with your previous Packer template to recreate the old image, then run `terraform apply`. Terraform triggers another instance refresh to deploy the previous working version.

You can improve the workflow include the following:

- **Automate image builds:** Use CI/CD systems like GitHub Actions to automatically run `packer build` when you commit code changes.
- **Automate deployments:** Use HCP Terraform with VCS-driven workflows to automatically run `terraform apply` when Packer builds complete.
- **Track image metadata:** Use HCP Packer to store metadata about your machine images, tracking which Git commit built each image, which environments are running each version, and the full ancestry of your image builds.
- **Retrieve secrets dynamically:** Use Vault to provide secrets to instances at startup through user data scripts, preventing secrets from being embedded in machine images.

HashiCorp resources:

- Learn about [immutable infrastructure](/well-architected-framework/define-and-automate-processes/define/immutable-infrastructure) concepts and benefits
- Create [immutable containers](/well-architected-framework/define-and-automate-processes/define/immutable-infrastructure/containers) with Packer
- Learn how to [package applications](/well-architected-framework/define-and-automate-processes/automate/packaging) with Packer for virtual machines
- Learn how to [deploy infrastructure](/well-architected-framework/define-and-automate-processes/automate/deployments) with Terraform
- Implement [semi-automated deployments](/well-architected-framework/define-and-automate-processes/process-automation/semi-automated) with machine images
- Implement [fully-automated deployments](/well-architected-framework/define-and-automate-processes/process-automation/fully-automated) with image CI/CD
- Use [infrastructure as code](/well-architected-framework/define-and-automate-processes/define/as-code/infrastructure) to deploy machine images

Packer documentation and tutorials:

- Read the Packer [documentation](/packer/docs) for core image building concepts
- Follow hands-on [Packer tutorials](/packer/tutorials) for machine image creation
- Build images in [AWS](/packer/tutorials/aws-get-started), [Azure](/packer/tutorials/azure-get-started), or [GCP](/packer/tutorials/gcp-get-started)
- Use [Packer provisioners](/packer/docs/provisioners) to configure machine images
- Use the Packer [Ansible provisioner](/packer/integrations/hashicorp/ansible/latest/components/provisioner/ansible) for configuration management
- Automate Packer with [GitHub Actions](/packer/tutorials/cloud-production/github-actions)
- Learn about [HCP Packer](/hcp/docs/packer) for image metadata tracking

Terraform documentation and tutorials:

- Get started with [Terraform tutorials](/terraform/tutorials) for hands-on examples
- Read the [Terraform documentation](/terraform/docs) for comprehensive features
- Provision [infrastructure with Packer and Terraform](/terraform/tutorials/provision/packer)
- Use the [AWS AMI data source](/terraform/providers/aws/latest/docs/data-sources/ami) to query Packer-built images
- Learn about [Auto Scaling Groups](/terraform/providers/aws/latest/docs/resources/autoscaling_group) for immutable VM deployments

## Next steps

In this section of Define your processes, you learned why immutable virtual machines increase reliability, how to build machine images with Packer, and how to deploy them with Terraform using Auto Scaling Groups. Create immutable virtual machines is part of the [Define and automate processes pillar](/well-architected-framework/define-and-automate-processes).

Related topics:

To learn more about immutable infrastructure, continue to the following topics:

- Overview of [immutable infrastructure concepts](/well-architected-framework/define-and-automate-processes/define/immutable-infrastructure) - Overview of immutable infrastructure concepts
- Create [immutable containers](/well-architected-framework/define-and-automate-processes/define/immutable-infrastructure/containers)

Commit message:

Fix style guide violations and add cross-document links
Style guide compliance fixes (24 issues):
- Replace vague pronouns with specific names (21 fixes)
  - Changed 'This configuration' to 'The Terraform configuration'
  - Changed 'This template' to 'The Packer template'
  - Changed 'This workflow' to 'The GitHub Actions workflow'
  - And similar fixes across all code examples
- Fix list introduction grammar (3 fixes)
  - Add 'the following' where required
  - Remove redundant 'the following' usage

Cross-document linking improvements (15 links):
- Add immutable infrastructure, semi-automated, and fully-automated links to deployments.mdx
- Add packaging and deployments links to immutable-infrastructure/index.mdx
- Add testing links to containers.mdx and virtual-machines.mdx
- Add packaging and testing links to zero-downtime-deployments/infrastructure.mdx
- Add testing and infrastructure as code links to zero-downtime-deployments/applications.mdx
- Add testing and deployments links to zero-downtime-deployments/service-mesh.mdx
- Fix spacing bug in containers.mdx (and[fully → and [fully)

Files modified: 14
- automate/deployments.mdx
- automate/packaging.mdx
- automate/testing.mdx
- define/as-code/infrastructure.mdx
- define/immutable-infrastructure/index.mdx
- define/immutable-infrastructure/containers.mdx
- define/immutable-infrastructure/virtual-machines.mdx
- deploy/atomic-deployments.mdx
- deploy/zero-downtime-deployments/applications.mdx
- deploy/zero-downtime-deployments/infrastructure.mdx
- deploy/zero-downtime-deployments/service-mesh.mdx
- process-automation/fully-automated.mdx
- process-automation/gitops.mdx
- process-automation/semi-automated.mdx

These changes improve clarity, follow HashiCorp style guide requirements,
and create better document interconnectivity for user navigation.

content/well-architected-framework/docs/docs/define-and-automate-processes/define/immutable-infrastructure/virtual-machines.mdx, after:

---
page_title: Create immutable virtual machines
description: Create immutable virtual machines by building images with Packer and deploying them with Terraform.
---

# Create immutable virtual machines

Immutable virtual machines package your entire application stack, including the operating system, dependencies, and application code, into unchangeable machine images that you build once and deploy across all environments. You build machine images with Packer, deploy them with Terraform, and never modify running virtual machines. When you need to make changes, you rebuild the image with your updates and deploy new virtual machines to replace the old ones. The following sections explain why you should use immutable virtual machines, how to build machine images with Packer, and how to deploy them with Terraform.

## Why use immutable virtual machines

Immutable virtual machines address the following operational challenges:

- **Eliminate configuration drift:** Immutable virtual machines prevent drift by deploying identical machine images, ensuring every VM across all environments matches your defined configuration exactly.

- **Prevent manual change errors:** Manual updates through SSH introduce human error—typos in commands, forgotten steps, or changes applied to wrong servers cause outages. Immutable virtual machines remove the need for manual server access, applying all changes through tested, version-controlled machine images.

- **Enable reliable rollbacks:** When VM updates fail, rolling back requires remembering what changed and manually reversing those changes across multiple servers. Immutable virtual machines enable rollbacks by redeploying the previous machine image version without troubleshooting what changed.

## Build machine images with Packer

Building machine images involves defining your application, dependencies, and operating system configurations as code, then using that code to produce a cloud-specific machine image like an AWS AMI, Azure image, or GCP image. The image contains your complete application stack—the operating system, runtime dependencies, your application code, and system configurations. Once built, the image is immutable and ready for deployment across all environments.

Packer automates machine image creation by launching a temporary instance, provisioning it with your application and dependencies using tools like Ansible, shell scripts, or configuration management tools, creating an image snapshot, and terminating the temporary instance. The resulting machine image is tagged with version information and stored in your cloud provider's image repository.

Learn how to build machine images in [Package applications with containers and machine images](/well-architected-framework/define-and-automate-processes/automate/packaging).

## Deploy immutable VMs with Terraform

Terraform deploys immutable virtual machines by querying your most recent Packer-built machine image and creating VM instances from it. When you update your application, Terraform detects the new machine image and replaces old instances with new ones.

### Query machine images dynamically

Terraform data sources query your cloud provider to find machine images built by Packer, removing hardcoded image IDs. Using data sources connects your Packer and Terraform workflows, ensuring Terraform always deploys your latest machine image.

The following Terraform configuration queries the most recent Packer-built AMI:

```hcl
terraform {
  required_providers {
    aws = {
      source  = "hashicorp/aws"
      version = "~> 6.0"
    }
  }
}

provider "aws" {
  region = "us-east-1"
}

data "aws_ami" "web_app" {
  most_recent = true
  owners      = ["self"]

  filter {
    name   = "name"
    values = ["web-app-*"]
  }

  filter {
    name   = "tag:Built-By"
    values = ["packer"]
  }
}

output "ami_id" {
  value       = data.aws_ami.web_app.id
  description = "Most recent web application AMI"
}

output "ami_name" {
  value       = data.aws_ami.web_app.name
  description = "Name of the AMI"
}
```

The data source queries AWS for the most recent AMI with name pattern "web-app-*" and tag "Built-By: packer". Every time you run `terraform plan` or `terraform apply`, Terraform queries for the latest image, automatically detecting when you've built a new AMI with Packer. Using data sources eliminates manual AMI ID updates in your Terraform code.

## Immutable VM workflow

The complete workflow for immutable virtual machines includes the following steps:

1. **Build the machine image:** Create a Packer template defining your application, dependencies, and OS configuration. Run `packer build` to create the machine image and upload it to your cloud provider.

1. **Create infrastructure code:** Write Terraform configuration that uses data sources to query your most recent Packer-built image. Define Auto Scaling Groups with instance refresh enabled to handle immutable updates.

1. **Deploy the infrastructure:** Run `terraform apply` to create your Auto Scaling Group and related infrastructure. Terraform queries the latest machine image and deploys instances from it.

1. **Update and redeploy:** When you need to update your application, modify your Packer template, run `packer build` to create a new machine image, then run `terraform apply`. Terraform detects the new image and triggers an instance refresh, gradually replacing old instances with new ones.

1. **Rollback if needed:** If the new version causes issues, run `packer build` with your previous Packer template to recreate the old image, then run `terraform apply`. Terraform triggers another instance refresh to deploy the previous working version.

You can improve the workflow with the following:

- **Automate image builds:** Use CI/CD systems like GitHub Actions to automatically run `packer build` when you commit code changes.
- **Automate deployments:** Use HCP Terraform with VCS-driven workflows to automatically run `terraform apply` when Packer builds complete.
- **Track image metadata:** Use HCP Packer to store metadata about your machine images, tracking which Git commit built each image, which environments are running each version, and the full ancestry of your image builds.
- **Retrieve secrets dynamically:** Use Vault to provide secrets to instances at startup through user data scripts, preventing secrets from being embedded in machine images.

HashiCorp resources:

- Learn about [immutable infrastructure](/well-architected-framework/define-and-automate-processes/define/immutable-infrastructure) concepts and benefits
- Create [immutable containers](/well-architected-framework/define-and-automate-processes/define/immutable-infrastructure/containers) with Packer
- Learn how to [package applications](/well-architected-framework/define-and-automate-processes/automate/packaging) with Packer for virtual machines
- Learn how to [deploy infrastructure](/well-architected-framework/define-and-automate-processes/automate/deployments) with Terraform
- Implement [automated testing](/well-architected-framework/define-and-automate-processes/automate/testing) for infrastructure and machine images
- Implement [semi-automated deployments](/well-architected-framework/define-and-automate-processes/process-automation/semi-automated) with machine images
- Implement [fully-automated deployments](/well-architected-framework/define-and-automate-processes/process-automation/fully-automated) with image CI/CD
- Use [infrastructure as code](/well-architected-framework/define-and-automate-processes/define/as-code/infrastructure) to deploy machine images

Packer documentation and tutorials:

- Read the Packer [documentation](/packer/docs) for core image building concepts
- Follow hands-on [Packer tutorials](/packer/tutorials) for machine image creation
- Build images in [AWS](/packer/tutorials/aws-get-started), [Azure](/packer/tutorials/azure-get-started), or [GCP](/packer/tutorials/gcp-get-started)
- Use [Packer provisioners](/packer/docs/provisioners) to configure machine images
- Use the Packer [Ansible provisioner](/packer/integrations/hashicorp/ansible/latest/components/provisioner/ansible) for configuration management
- Automate Packer with [GitHub Actions](/packer/tutorials/cloud-production/github-actions)
- Learn about [HCP Packer](/hcp/docs/packer) for image metadata tracking

Terraform documentation and tutorials:

- Get started with [Terraform tutorials](/terraform/tutorials) for hands-on examples
- Read the [Terraform documentation](/terraform/docs) for comprehensive features
- Provision [infrastructure with Packer and Terraform](/terraform/tutorials/provision/packer)
- Use the [AWS AMI data source](/terraform/providers/aws/latest/docs/data-sources/ami) to query Packer-built images
- Learn about [Auto Scaling Groups](/terraform/providers/aws/latest/docs/resources/autoscaling_group) for immutable VM deployments

## Next steps

In this section of Define your processes, you learned why immutable virtual machines increase reliability, how to build machine images with Packer, and how to deploy them with Terraform using Auto Scaling Groups. Create immutable virtual machines is part of the [Define and automate processes pillar](/well-architected-framework/define-and-automate-processes).

Related topics:

To learn more about immutable infrastructure, continue to the following topics:

- Overview of [immutable infrastructure concepts](/well-architected-framework/define-and-automate-processes/define/immutable-infrastructure) - Overview of immutable infrastructure concepts
- Create [immutable containers](/well-architected-framework/define-and-automate-processes/define/immutable-infrastructure/containers)
