content/boundary/v0.21.x/content/docs/domain-model/targets.mdx, before:

---
layout: docs
page_title: Target resource
description: >-
  Learn about using the target resource to configure a networked service a user can connect to. Understand the TCP and SSH target type requirements and attributes.
---

# Targets

A target is a resource
that represents a networked service
with an associated set of permissions
a [user][] can connect to
and interact with
through Boundary
by way of a session.

A target can only be defined within a [project][].
A target can contain references to [host sets][] from [host catalogs][]
which belong to the same project as the target.
A target can contain references to [credential libraries][]
from [credential stores][] which belong to the same project as the target.

A target can contain an address
which is used by a session to connect to a networked resource.
A target cannot have an address and also reference host sources.

A user must be assigned a [role][] with the `authorize-session` [permission][]
for the target to
establish a session with a networked resource by way of an address,
or host in any host set referenced by the target.

## Attributes

A target has the following configurable attributes:

- `name` - (required)
  The `name` must be unique within the target's project.

- `description` - (optional)
  An optional description of the target for identificaiton purposes.

- `address` - (optional)
  This value represents a network resource address and is used when establishing a session.
  It does not accept a port, only an IP address or DNS name.

  If you set a target address for RDP targets that use Kerberos authentication, use the target's hostname and append the domain to it, for example `target-hostname.mydomain.com`. For RDP targets that use NTLM authentication, set the target address to the target's IP address.

- `default_client_port` - (optional)
  Represents a local port that you want Boundary to listen to by default when someone initiates a session on the client.

- `egress_worker_filter` - (optional)
  A boolean expression to [filter][] which egress workers can handle sessions
  for this target.
  Egress worker filters determine which workers are used to access targets.
  You can configure an egress filter to enable [multi-hop](/boundary/docs/workers/multi-hop) connections.
  If you do not configure an egress filter, then Boundary uses a single worker to connect to the controller.

- `ingress_worker_filter` - (optional) <sup>HCP/ENT</sup>
  A boolean expression to [filter][] which ingress workers can handle sessions
  for this target.
  Ingress worker filters determine which workers you connect with to initiate a session.
  If you do not configure an ingress filter, Boundary selects a front line worker for the session.
  A front line worker is any worker directly connected to the control plane; for HCP Boundary this will be an HCP worker.

- `session_connection_limit` - (required)
  The cumulative number of connections allowed during a session.
  A -1 value means no limit.
  The default is -1.
  The value must be greater than 0 or exactly -1.

- `session_max_seconds` - (required)
  The maximum duration of an individual session between the user and the target.
  All connections for a session are closed
  and the session is terminated
  when a session reaches the maximum duration.
  The default is 8 hours (28800 seconds).
  This value must be greater than 0.
  If you do not specfiy a maximum duration, Boundary uses the default value.

- `with-alias-authorize-session-host-id` (Optional)
  The authorize session host ID flag that an alias uses when you create the alias at the same time as you create the target.

- `with-alias-scope-id` (Optional)
  The scope ID for the alias to be created in, when you create it at the same time as you create the target.
  The default scope is global.

- `with-alias-value` (Optional)
  The string that you want to use as the alias to represent the target, when you create an alias at the same time as you create the target.

## Target types

Boundary supports RDP, SSH, and TCP target types.
RDP and SSH targets **must** have at least one injected application credential to establish the connection.
A TCP target **cannot** have any injected application credentials.

Note the following target type requirements:

- **To use brokered credentials to connect to a target that runs SSH**: you must use a `tcp` target type.
- **To use injected application credentials to connect to a target that runs SSH**: you must use an `ssh` target type.
- **To enable session recording for a target that runs SSH**: you must use injected application credentials and an `ssh` target type.

You can configure brokered credentials for use with SSH targets for purposes other than establishing the initial SSH connection.

### RDP target attributes

<EnterpriseAlert product="boundary">This feature requires <a href="https://www.hashicorp.com/products/boundary">HCP Boundary or Boundary Enterprise</a></EnterpriseAlert>

RDP targets use injected application credentials to authenticate an RDP session between the client and end host in Windows environments that use Active Directory authentication.
Injected credentials allow users to securely connect to remote hosts using RDP, while never being in the possession of a valid credential for that target host.

Boundary generates self-signed certificates for each RDP target. When users first connect to a target, they must manually accept the certificate. This is a one-time action per target for most clients, though behavior varies:

- **Windows clients** remember certificates across sessions.
- **macOS clients** require accepting certificates per alias or endpoint.
- **Custom listen addresses** generate certificate mismatch warnings.

The Windows Remote Desktop Connection application consumes multiple connections when initiating a session.
If you set the `session_connection_limit` to `1` for RDP targets it will cause all RDP connections using this client to fail. You can leave the connection limit unset or configure a limit of 2 or higher to account for the multiple connections used by the RDP client.

RDP targets have the following additional attribute:

- `default_port` - (optional)
  The default port to set on this target.
  If this is not specified the default port will be 3389.

<Note>

Due to a port conflict with the Windows Remote Desktop Connection app on modern Windows operating systems (Windows 11+, Windows Server 2025), transparent sessions fail when you use the default port (`3389`) to establish an RDP connection.

For more information, refer to [Configure transparent sessions](/boundary/docs/targets/configuration/configure-transparent-sessions).

</Note>

### SSH target attributes

<EnterpriseAlert product="boundary">This feature requires <a href="https://www.hashicorp.com/products/boundary">HCP Boundary or Boundary Enterprise</a></EnterpriseAlert>

SSH targets use injected application credentials to authenticate an SSH session between the client and end host.
Injected credentials allow users to securely connect to remote hosts using SSH, while never being in the possession of a valid credential for that target host.
The injected credentials can be a username/password or username/private key credential from Vault credential libraries or they can be static [credentials][] or an SSH certificate from Vault SSH credential libraries.

SSH targets require you to configure injected credentials to create a session.
If you attempt to create a session against an SSH target without configuring injected credentials, it results in an error.
However, you can use brokered credentials with SSH targets for purposes other than establishing the initial SSH connection.

SSH targets have the following additional attributes:

- `default_port` - (optional)
  The default port to set on this target.
  If this is not specified the default port will be 22.

- `enable_session_recording` - (optional)
  Set to `true` to enable [session recordings][] for a target.
  If you enable session recording, the `storage_bucket_id` is required.

- `storage_bucket_id` - (optional)
  Designates the storage bucket to be used for session recording.
  This attribute is required if you set `enable_session_recording` to `true`.

### TCP target attributes

TCP targets have the following additional attribute:

- `default_port` - (required)
  The default port to set on this target.

## Referenced by

- [Credential library][]
- [Host set][]
- [Project][]
- [Session][]
- [Session recordings][]
- [Worker filtering][]

[credentials]: /boundary/docs/domain-model/credentials
[credential library]: /boundary/docs/domain-model/credential-libraries
[credential libraries]: /boundary/docs/domain-model/credential-libraries
[credential store]: /boundary/docs/domain-model/credential-stores
[credential stores]: /boundary/docs/domain-model/credential-stores
[host catalog]: /boundary/docs/domain-model/host-catalogs
[host catalogs]: /boundary/docs/domain-model/host-catalogs
[host set]: /boundary/docs/domain-model/host-sets
[host sets]: /boundary/docs/domain-model/host-sets
[host]: /boundary/docs/domain-model/hosts
[hosts]: /boundary/docs/domain-model/hosts
[permission]: /boundary/docs/rbac
[permissions]: /boundary/docs/rbac
[project]: /boundary/docs/domain-model/scopes#projects
[projects]: /boundary/docs/domain-model/scopes#projects
[role]: /boundary/docs/domain-model/roles
[roles]: /boundary/docs/domain-model/roles
[session]: /boundary/docs/domain-model/sessions
[sessions]: /boundary/docs/domain-model/sessions
[session recordings]: /boundary/docs/domain-model/session-recordings
[filter]: /boundary/docs/workers/worker-tags
[worker filtering]: /boundary/docs/workers/worker-tags
[user]: /boundary/docs/domain-model/users
[users]: /boundary/docs/domain-model/users

## Service API docs

The following services are relevant to this resource:

- [Target service](/boundary/api-docs/target-service)

Commit message:

docs: Expand on session connection limit

content/boundary/v0.21.x/content/docs/domain-model/targets.mdx, after:

---
layout: docs
page_title: Target resource
description: >-
  Learn about using the target resource to configure a networked service a user can connect to. Understand the TCP and SSH target type requirements and attributes.
---

# Targets

A target is a resource
that represents a networked service
with an associated set of permissions
a [user][] can connect to
and interact with
through Boundary
by way of a session.

A target can only be defined within a [project][].
A target can contain references to [host sets][] from [host catalogs][]
which belong to the same project as the target.
A target can contain references to [credential libraries][]
from [credential stores][] which belong to the same project as the target.

A target can contain an address
which is used by a session to connect to a networked resource.
A target cannot have an address and also reference host sources.

A user must be assigned a [role][] with the `authorize-session` [permission][]
for the target to
establish a session with a networked resource by way of an address,
or host in any host set referenced by the target.

## Attributes

A target has the following configurable attributes:

- `name` - (required)
  The `name` must be unique within the target's project.

- `description` - (optional)
  An optional description of the target for identificaiton purposes.

- `address` - (optional)
  This value represents a network resource address and is used when establishing a session.
  It does not accept a port, only an IP address or DNS name.

  If you set a target address for RDP targets that use Kerberos authentication, use the target's hostname and append the domain to it, for example `target-hostname.mydomain.com`. For RDP targets that use NTLM authentication, set the target address to the target's IP address.

- `default_client_port` - (optional)
  Represents a local port that you want Boundary to listen to by default when someone initiates a session on the client.

- `egress_worker_filter` - (optional)
  A boolean expression to [filter][] which egress workers can handle sessions
  for this target.
  Egress worker filters determine which workers are used to access targets.
  You can configure an egress filter to enable [multi-hop](/boundary/docs/workers/multi-hop) connections.
  If you do not configure an egress filter, then Boundary uses a single worker to connect to the controller.

- `ingress_worker_filter` - (optional) <sup>HCP/ENT</sup>
  A boolean expression to [filter][] which ingress workers can handle sessions
  for this target.
  Ingress worker filters determine which workers you connect with to initiate a session.
  If you do not configure an ingress filter, Boundary selects a front line worker for the session.
  A front line worker is any worker directly connected to the control plane; for HCP Boundary this will be an HCP worker.

- `session_connection_limit` - (required)
  The cumulative number of connections allowed during a session.
  A -1 value means no limit.
  The default is -1.
  The value must be greater than 0 or exactly -1.

  The Windows Remote Desktop Connection application consumes multiple connections when initiating a session.
  If you set the `session_connection_limit` to 1 for RDP targets it will cause all RDP connections using this client to fail.
  You can leave the connection limit unset or configure a limit of 2 or higher to account for the multiple connections used by the RDP client.

- `session_max_seconds` - (required)
  The maximum duration of an individual session between the user and the target.
  All connections for a session are closed
  and the session is terminated
  when a session reaches the maximum duration.
  The default is 8 hours (28800 seconds).
  This value must be greater than 0.
  If you do not specfiy a maximum duration, Boundary uses the default value.

- `with-alias-authorize-session-host-id` (Optional)
  The authorize session host ID flag that an alias uses when you create the alias at the same time as you create the target.

- `with-alias-scope-id` (Optional)
  The scope ID for the alias to be created in, when you create it at the same time as you create the target.
  The default scope is global.

- `with-alias-value` (Optional)
  The string that you want to use as the alias to represent the target, when you create an alias at the same time as you create the target.

## Target types

Boundary supports RDP, SSH, and TCP target types.
RDP and SSH targets **must** have at least one injected application credential to establish the connection.
A TCP target **cannot** have any injected application credentials.

Note the following target type requirements:

- **To use brokered credentials to connect to a target that runs SSH**: you must use a `tcp` target type.
- **To use injected application credentials to connect to a target that runs SSH**: you must use an `ssh` target type.
- **To enable session recording for a target that runs SSH**: you must use injected application credentials and an `ssh` target type.

You can configure brokered credentials for use with SSH targets for purposes other than establishing the initial SSH connection.

### RDP target attributes

<EnterpriseAlert product="boundary">This feature requires <a href="https://www.hashicorp.com/products/boundary">HCP Boundary or Boundary Enterprise</a></EnterpriseAlert>

RDP targets use injected application credentials to authenticate an RDP session between the client and end host in Windows environments that use Active Directory authentication.
Injected credentials allow users to securely connect to remote hosts using RDP, while never being in the possession of a valid credential for that target host.

Boundary generates self-signed certificates for each RDP target. When users first connect to a target, they must manually accept the certificate. This is a one-time action per target for most clients, though behavior varies:

- **Windows clients** remember certificates across sessions.
- **macOS clients** require accepting certificates per alias or endpoint.
- **Custom listen addresses** generate certificate mismatch warnings.

The Windows Remote Desktop Connection application consumes multiple connections when initiating a session.
If you set the `session_connection_limit` to `1` for RDP targets it will cause all RDP connections using this client to fail. You can leave the connection limit unset or configure a limit of 2 or higher to account for the multiple connections used by the RDP client.

RDP targets have the following additional attribute:

- `default_port` - (optional)
  The default port to set on this target.
  If this is not specified the default port will be 3389.

<Note>

Due to a port conflict with the Windows Remote Desktop Connection app on modern Windows operating systems (Windows 11+, Windows Server 2025), transparent sessions fail when you use the default port (`3389`) to establish an RDP connection.

For more information, refer to [Configure transparent sessions](/boundary/docs/targets/configuration/configure-transparent-sessions).

</Note>

### SSH target attributes

<EnterpriseAlert product="boundary">This feature requires <a href="https://www.hashicorp.com/products/boundary">HCP Boundary or Boundary Enterprise</a></EnterpriseAlert>

SSH targets use injected application credentials to authenticate an SSH session between the client and end host.
Injected credentials allow users to securely connect to remote hosts using SSH, while never being in the possession of a valid credential for that target host.
The injected credentials can be a username/password or username/private key credential from Vault credential libraries or they can be static [credentials][] or an SSH certificate from Vault SSH credential libraries.

SSH targets require you to configure injected credentials to create a session.
If you attempt to create a session against an SSH target without configuring injected credentials, it results in an error.
However, you can use brokered credentials with SSH targets for purposes other than establishing the initial SSH connection.

SSH targets have the following additional attributes:

- `default_port` - (optional)
  The default port to set on this target.
  If this is not specified the default port will be 22.

- `enable_session_recording` - (optional)
  Set to `true` to enable [session recordings][] for a target.
  If you enable session recording, the `storage_bucket_id` is required.

- `storage_bucket_id` - (optional)
  Designates the storage bucket to be used for session recording.
  This attribute is required if you set `enable_session_recording` to `true`.

### TCP target attributes

TCP targets have the following additional attribute:

- `default_port` - (required)
  The default port to set on this target.

## Referenced by

- [Credential library][]
- [Host set][]
- [Project][]
- [Session][]
- [Session recordings][]
- [Worker filtering][]

[credentials]: /boundary/docs/domain-model/credentials
[credential library]: /boundary/docs/domain-model/credential-libraries
[credential libraries]: /boundary/docs/domain-model/credential-libraries
[credential store]: /boundary/docs/domain-model/credential-stores
[credential stores]: /boundary/docs/domain-model/credential-stores
[host catalog]: /boundary/docs/domain-model/host-catalogs
[host catalogs]: /boundary/docs/domain-model/host-catalogs
[host set]: /boundary/docs/domain-model/host-sets
[host sets]: /boundary/docs/domain-model/host-sets
[host]: /boundary/docs/domain-model/hosts
[hosts]: /boundary/docs/domain-model/hosts
[permission]: /boundary/docs/rbac
[permissions]: /boundary/docs/rbac
[project]: /boundary/docs/domain-model/scopes#projects
[projects]: /boundary/docs/domain-model/scopes#projects
[role]: /boundary/docs/domain-model/roles
[roles]: /boundary/docs/domain-model/roles
[session]: /boundary/docs/domain-model/sessions
[sessions]: /boundary/docs/domain-model/sessions
[session recordings]: /boundary/docs/domain-model/session-recordings
[filter]: /boundary/docs/workers/worker-tags
[worker filtering]: /boundary/docs/workers/worker-tags
[user]: /boundary/docs/domain-model/users
[users]: /boundary/docs/domain-model/users

## Service API docs

The following services are relevant to this resource:

- [Target service](/boundary/api-docs/target-service)
