content/hcp-docs/content/docs/hcp/iam/access-management.mdx, before:

---
page_title: Access Management
description: |-
  This topic describes how access management functions within the HashiCorp Cloud Platform (HCP) and how leverage it.
---

# Access Management

This topic describes HCP's access management features. You can set roles and permissions at either the _organization level_ , _project level_ or _resource level_ to secure access to HCP resources.

## Roles and permissions

@include '/hcp-administration/permission-intro.mdx'

## Add new role assignment

To assign roles at a fine-grained level using the HCP platform, users must have one of the following permissions:

- `owner` role for the HCP organization
- `admin` role for the HCP organization
- `Organization IAM policies administrator` role

To assign a new role:

1. At the top, click the dropdown to open the organization and project selector. Select **View all organizations**.
1. Click the name of the organization.
1. From the **Organization dashboard**, click **Access Control (IAM)**.
1. Click **Add new assignment**. If you are not an organization's owner, this option does not appear.
1. Enter the user's email address.

You can change the user's role assignment and the service associated with that role assignment using the drop-down menus. When you set a role assignment for all services, it sets the user's role in the organization.

## Organization level roles and permissions

The following table describes the roles and permissions available at the organizational level.

| HCP Organization Permissions      |  Owner  |  Admin   | Contributor |  Viewer  | Browser  | No role  |
| --------------------------------- | :-----: | :------: | :---------: | :------: | :------: | :------: |
| Add and delete users              | &#9989; | &#9989;  |  &#10060;   | &#10060; | &#10060; | &#10060; |
| Manage user permissions           | &#9989; | &#9989;  |  &#10060;   | &#10060; | &#10060; | &#10060; |
| Add or remove owners              | &#9989; | &#10060; |  &#10060;   | &#10060; | &#10060; | &#10060; |
| View users                        | &#9989; | &#9989;  |   &#9989;   | &#9989;  | &#9989;  | &#9989;  |
| View groups                       | &#9989; | &#9989;  |   &#9989;   | &#9989;  | &#9989;  | &#9989;  |
| Manage service principals         | &#9989; | &#9989;  |  &#10060;   | &#10060; | &#10060; | &#10060; |
| Manage groups                     | &#9989; | &#9989;  |  &#10060;   | &#10060; | &#10060; | &#10060; |
| View current billing status       | &#9989; | &#9989;  |   &#9989;   | &#9989;  | &#10060; | &#10060; |
| Create projects                   | &#9989; | &#9989;  |   &#9989;   | &#10060; | &#10060; | &#10060; |
| View projects                     | &#9989; | &#9989;  |   &#9989;   | &#9989;  | &#9989;  | &#10060; |
| View project resources            | &#9989; | &#9989;  |   &#9989;   | &#9989;  | &#10060; | &#10060; |
| Request Organization deletion     | &#9989; | &#10060; |  &#10060;   | &#10060; | &#10060; | &#10060; |
| Manage SSO configuration          | &#9989; | &#9989;  |  &#10060;   | &#10060; | &#10060; | &#10060; |
| Manage billing resources          | &#9989; | &#9989;  |  &#10060;   | &#10060; | &#10060; | &#10060; |

The following tables provide additional ways to understand permissions, based on needs such as billing and SSO management.

<Tabs>

<Tab heading="Resource Manager" group="resource-manager">

| HCP organization permissions      | Organization IAM policies administrator |  Project Creator  |
| --------------------------------- | :-------------------------------------: |  :-------------:  |
| Add and delete users              |                &#10060;                 |     &#10060;      |
| Manage user permissions           |                 &#9989;                 |     &#10060;      |
| View users                        |                 &#9989;                 |      &#9989;      |
| View groups                       |                 &#9989;                 |      &#9989;      |
| Manage service principals         |                &#10060;                 |     &#10060;      |
| Manage groups                     |                &#10060;                 |     &#10060;      |
| View current billing status       |                &#10060;                 |     &#10060;      |
| Create projects                   |                &#10060;                 |      &#9989;      |
| View projects                     |                 &#9989;                 |     &#10060;      |
| View project resources            |                &#10060;                 |     &#10060;      |
| Request organization deletion     |                &#10060;                 |     &#10060;      |
| Manage SSO and SCIM configuration |                &#10060;                 |     &#10060;      |
| Manage billing resources          |                &#10060;                 |     &#10060;      |

</Tab>

<Tab heading="Billing" group="billing">

| HCP Organization permissions      | Billing administrator |
| --------------------------------- | :-------------------: |
| Add and delete users              |       &#10060;        |
| Manage user permissions           |       &#10060;        |
| View users                        |        &#9989;        |
| View groups                       |        &#9989;        |
| Manage service principals         |       &#10060;        |
| Manage groups                     |       &#10060;        |
| View current billing status       |        &#9989;        |
| Create projects                   |       &#10060;        |
| View projects                     |        &#9989;        |
| View project resources            |       &#10060;        |
| Request organization deletion     |       &#10060;        |
| Manage SSO and SCIM configuration |       &#10060;        |
| Manage billing resources          |        &#9989;        |

</Tab>

<Tab heading="IAM" group="iam">

| HCP organization permissions      | Group administrator | SSO administrator |
| --------------------------------- | :-----------------: | :---------------: |
| Add and delete users              |      &#10060;       |     &#10060;      |
| Manage user permissions           |      &#10060;       |     &#10060;      |
| View users                        |       &#9989;       |      &#9989;      |
| View groups                       |       &#9989;       |      &#9989;      |
| Manage service principals         |      &#10060;       |     &#10060;      |
| Manage groups                     |       &#9989;       |     &#10060;      |
| View current billing status       |      &#10060;       |     &#10060;      |
| Create projects                   |      &#10060;       |     &#10060;      |
| View projects                     |      &#10060;       |     &#10060;      |
| View project resources            |      &#10060;       |     &#10060;      |
| Request organization deletion     |      &#10060;       |     &#10060;      |
| Manage SSO and SCIM configuration |      &#10060;       |      &#9989;      |
| Manage billing resources          |      &#10060;       |     &#10060;      |

</Tab>

<Tab heading="HCP Terraform" group="hcptf">

| HCP Terraform organization permission | Admin | Contributor | Viewer |
|---------------------------------------|:-----:|:-----------:|:------:|
| Owner-level permissions | &#9989; | &#10060; | &#10060; |
| View all projects | &#9989; | &#9989; | &#9989; |
| Manage all projects | &#9989; | &#9989; | &#10060; |
| View all workspaces | &#9989; | &#9989; | &#9989; |
| Manage all workspaces | &#9989; | &#9989; | &#10060; |
| Manage organization access | &#9989; | &#10060; | &#10060; |
| Include secret groups | &#9989; | &#10060; | &#10060; |
| Manage policies | &#9989; | &#10060; | &#10060; |
| Manage policy overrides | &#9989; | &#10060; | &#10060; |
| Manage run tasks | &#9989; | &#10060; | &#10060; |
| Manage version control settings | &#9989; | &#10060; | &#10060; |
| Manage agent pools | &#9989; | &#10060; | &#10060; |
| Manage private registry modules | &#9989; | &#10060; | &#10060; |
| Manage private registry providers | &#9989; | &#10060; | &#10060; |
| Manage public registry modules | &#9989; | &#10060; | &#10060; |
| Manage public registry providers | &#9989; | &#10060; | &#10060; |
| Members can manage API tokens | &#9989; | &#9989; | &#10060; |

To learn more about each permission, refer to [HCP Terraform organization permissions](/terraform/cloud-docs/users-teams-organizations/permissions/organization).

</Tab>

</Tabs>

A user can be a part of an organization with no roles assigned directly to them through the [SSO default role settings](/hcp/docs/hcp/admin/iam/sso) or IAM settings. To enforce least-privileged access, new users will have a limited experience within the platform until an Admin assigns either an organization or project role to the user.

## View current role assignments

To view a list of current role assignments in an organization, perform the following steps:

1. At the top, click the dropdown to open the organization and project selector. Select **View all organizations**.
1. Click the name of the organization.
1. From the **Organization dashboard**, click **Access Control (IAM)**.

The **Role assignments** page lists the currently assigned roles and provides an interface to search and filter the current assignments.

## Project level roles and permissions

The following tables describe role permissions scope to the project level.

<Tabs>
<Tab heading="All Services" group="all-services">

| HCP project permissions             |  Owner  |  Admin  | Contributor |  Viewer  | Browser  |
| ----------------------------------- | :-----: | :-----: | :---------: | :------: | :------: |
| View project                        | &#9989; | &#9989; |   &#9989;   | &#9989;  | &#9989;  |
| View project resources              | &#9989; | &#9989; |   &#9989;   | &#9989;  | &#10060; |
| Edit project permissions            | &#9989; | &#9989; |  &#10060;   | &#10060; | &#10060; |
| Delete project                      | &#9989; | &#9989; |  &#10060;   | &#10060; | &#10060; |
| Create and delete project resources | &#9989; | &#9989; |   &#9989;   | &#10060; | &#10060; |
| Manage project service principals   | &#9989; | &#9989; |  &#10060;   | &#10060; | &#10060; |

</Tab>

<Tab heading="Vault Secrets" group="hvs">

| HCP project permissions                           | App manager | App secrets reader | Integration manager | Integration reader |
| ------------------------------------------------- | :---------: | :----------------- | :-----------------: | :----------------- |
| View project                                      |   &#9989;   | &#9989;            |      &#10060;       | &#10060;           |
| View project resources                            |   &#9989;   | &#9989;            |      &#10060;       | &#10060;           |
| Edit project permissions                          |  &#10060;   | &#10060;           |      &#10060;       | &#10060;           |
| Delete project                                    |  &#10060;   | &#10060;           |      &#10060;       | &#10060;           |
| Create and delete project Vault Secrets resources |   &#9989;   | &#10060;           |      &#10060;       | &#10060;           |
| Manage project service principals                 |  &#10060;   | &#10060;           |      &#10060;       | &#10060;           |
| Create sync integrations                          |  &#10060;   | &#10060;           |       &#9989;       | &#10060;           |
| Manage sync integrations                          |  &#10060;   | &#10060;           |       &#9989;       | &#10060;           |
| Delete sync integrations                          |  &#10060;   | &#10060;           |       &#9989;       | &#10060;           |
| Connect sync integrations                         |  &#10060;   | &#10060;           |       &#9989;       | &#10060;           |
| Disconnect sync integrations                      |  &#10060;   | &#10060;           |       &#9989;       | &#10060;           |
| Get integrations                                  |  &#10060;   | &#10060;           |       &#9989;       | &#9989;            |
| List integrations                                 |  &#10060;   | &#10060;           |       &#9989;       | &#9989;            |
| Create integrations                               |   &#9989;   | &#10060;           |       &#9989;       | &#10060;           |
| Update integrations                               |   &#9989;   | &#10060;           |       &#9989;       | &#10060;           |
| Delete integrations                               |   &#9989;   | &#10060;           |       &#9989;       | &#10060;           |
| Read rotating secrets                             |   &#9989;   | &#9989;            |       &#9989;       | &#10060;           |
| Create rotating secrets                           |  &#10060;   | &#10060;           |       &#9989;       | &#10060;           |
| Edit rotating secrets                             |   &#9989;   | &#10060;           |       &#9989;       | &#10060;           |
| Delete rotating secrets                           |   &#9989;   | &#10060;           |       &#9989;       | &#10060;           |
| Generate dynamic secrets credentials              |   &#9989;   | &#9989;            |       &#9989;       | &#10060;           |
| Create dynamic secrets                            |  &#10060;   | &#10060;           |       &#9989;       | &#10060;           |
| Edit dynamic secrets                              |  &#10060;   | &#10060;           |       &#9989;       | &#10060;           |
| Delete dynamic secrets                            |   &#9989;   | &#10060;           |       &#9989;       | &#10060;           |

From the IAM tab in the HCP UI, you can assign the App Manager, App Secrets Reader, Integration Manager, or Integration Reader roles to Users, Service Principals, and Groups at the Project level.

Refer to the [HCP Vault Secrets](/hcp/docs/vault-secrets/permissions)
documentation for more details.

</Tab>

<Tab heading="Resource Manager" group="resource-manager">

| HCP project permissions             | Project IAM policies administrator |
| ----------------------------------- | :--------------------------------: |
| View project                        |              &#9989;               |
| View project resources              |              &#10060;              |
| Edit project permissions            |              &#9989;               |
| Delete project                      |              &#10060;              |
| Create and delete project resources |              &#10060;              |
| Manage project service principals   |              &#10060;              |
| Manage group role for project       |              &#9989;               |

</Tab>


<Tab heading="HCP Terraform" group="hcptf">

| HCP Terraform permission name | Admin role | Contributor role | Viewer |
|--------------------------------|:----------:|:---------------:|:------:|
| Read project | &#9989; | &#9989; | &#9989; |
| Update project | &#9989; | &#10060; | &#10060; |
| Delete project | &#9989; | &#10060; | &#10060; |
| Create workspaces | &#9989; | &#10060; | &#10060; |
| Move workspaces | &#9989; | &#10060; | &#10060; |
| Delete workspaces | &#9989; | &#10060; | &#10060; |
| Manage teams | &#9989; | &#10060; | &#10060; |
| Apply runs | &#9989; | &#10060; | &#10060; |
| Plan runs | &#9989; | &#10060; | &#10060; |
| Read runs | &#9989; | &#10060; | &#9989; |
| Read and write variables | &#9989; | &#10060; | &#10060; |
| Read variables | &#9989; | &#10060; | &#9989; |
| Manage variable sets | &#9989; | &#10060; | &#10060; |
| Read variable sets | &#9989; | &#10060; | &#10060; |
| Read and write state | &#9989; | &#10060; | &#10060; |
| Read state | &#9989; | &#10060; | &#9989; |
| Download Sentinel mocks | &#9989; | &#10060; | &#10060; |
| Lock/unlock workspaces | &#9989; | &#10060; | &#10060; |
| Manage workspace Run Tasks | &#9989; | &#10060; | &#10060; |

To learn more about each permission, refer to [HCP Terraform project permissions](/terraform/cloud-docs/users-teams-organizations/permissions/project).

</Tab>

</Tabs>

## Assign a project role

@include '/hcp-administration/assign-project-role.mdx'

## Role names and role IDs

To interact with the HCP Access Management system using the [HCP Terraform provider](https://registry.terraform.io/providers/hashicorp/hcp/latest) or public APIs, you must properly format the role IDs you reference. The following able lists role names and the formatting of their Role IDs.

<Tabs>
<Tab heading="All Services" group="all-services">

| Role name   |             Role ID              |
| ----------- | :------------------------------: |
| Owner       |          `roles/owner`           |
| Admin       |          `roles/admin`           |
| Contributor |       `roles/contributor`        |
| Viewer      |          `roles/viewer`          |
| Browser     | `roles/resource-manager.browser` |

</Tab>

<Tab heading="Vault Secrets" group="hvs">

@include '/hcp-administration/role-name-and-id/vault-secrets.mdx'

</Tab>

<Tab heading="Resource Manager" group="resource-manager">

| Role name                               |                       Role ID                       |
| --------------------------------------- | :-------------------------------------------------: |
| Project IAM policies administrator      | `roles/resource-manager.project-iam-policies-admin` |
| Organization IAM policies administrator |   `roles/resource-manager.org-iam-policies-admin`   |
| Project Creator                         |       `roles/resource-manager.project-creator`      |

</Tab>

<Tab heading="Billing" group="billing">

| Role Name             |            Role ID            |
| --------------------- | :---------------------------: |
| Billing Administrator | `roles/billing.billing-admin` |

</Tab>

<Tab heading="IAM" group="iam">

| Role Name           |         Role ID         |
| ------------------- | :---------------------: |
| Group Administrator | `roles/iam.group-admin` |
| SSO Administrator   |  `roles/iam.sso-admin`  |

</Tab>

</Tabs>

Commit message:

docs(hcp-iam): Enhance service principal and access management documentation
Refactor and update HCP IAM documentation to reflect new capabilities for service principals
and clarify role assignment procedures.

- **Service Principals (`service-principal/index.mdx`):**
  - Updated definition of project-level service principals to include their ability to be
    assigned organization-level roles.
  - Replaced example with a comprehensive scenario demonstrating multi-level (home project,
    cross-project, organization-level) role assignments for a single project-level SP.
  - This update supports secure automation workflows using Workload Identity Federation (WIF).

- **Access Management (`access-management.mdx`):**
  - Clarified the 'Add new role assignment' procedure (step 5) to accurately state that
    roles can be assigned to users, groups, and both organization-level and project-level
    service principals.

- **Changelog (`changelog.mdx`):**
  - Added a new entry for 2025-12-18 detailing the HCP Access Management update, highlighting
    the new capability for project-level service principals.

This work directly addresses the feature outlined in HCPF-3376.

content/hcp-docs/content/docs/hcp/iam/access-management.mdx, after:

---
page_title: Access Management
description: |-
  This topic describes how access management functions within the HashiCorp Cloud Platform (HCP) and how leverage it.
---

# Access Management

This topic describes HCP's access management features. You can set roles and permissions at either the _organization level_ , _project level_ or _resource level_ to secure access to HCP resources.

## Roles and permissions

@include '/hcp-administration/permission-intro.mdx'

## Add new role assignment

To assign roles at a fine-grained level using the HCP platform, users must have one of the following permissions:

- `owner` role for the HCP organization
- `admin` role for the HCP organization
- `Organization IAM policies administrator` role

To assign a new role:

1. At the top, click the dropdown to open the organization and project selector. Select **View all organizations**.
1. Click the name of the organization.
1. From the **Organization dashboard**, click **Access Control (IAM)**.
1. Click **Add new assignment**. If you are not an organization's owner, this option does not appear.
1. Enter the principal to assign the role to. This can be a user's email, a service principal, or a group.

You can change the user's role assignment and the service associated with that role assignment using the drop-down menus. When you set a role assignment for all services, it sets the user's role in the organization.

## Organization level roles and permissions

The following table describes the roles and permissions available at the organizational level.

| HCP Organization Permissions      |  Owner  |  Admin   | Contributor |  Viewer  | Browser  | No role  |
| --------------------------------- | :-----: | :------: | :---------: | :------: | :------: | :------: |
| Add and delete users              | &#9989; | &#9989;  |  &#10060;   | &#10060; | &#10060; | &#10060; |
| Manage user permissions           | &#9989; | &#9989;  |  &#10060;   | &#10060; | &#10060; | &#10060; |
| Add or remove owners              | &#9989; | &#10060; |  &#10060;   | &#10060; | &#10060; | &#10060; |
| View users                        | &#9989; | &#9989;  |   &#9989;   | &#9989;  | &#9989;  | &#9989;  |
| View groups                       | &#9989; | &#9989;  |   &#9989;   | &#9989;  | &#9989;  | &#9989;  |
| Manage service principals         | &#9989; | &#9989;  |  &#10060;   | &#10060; | &#10060; | &#10060; |
| Manage groups                     | &#9989; | &#9989;  |  &#10060;   | &#10060; | &#10060; | &#10060; |
| View current billing status       | &#9989; | &#9989;  |   &#9989;   | &#9989;  | &#10060; | &#10060; |
| Create projects                   | &#9989; | &#9989;  |   &#9989;   | &#10060; | &#10060; | &#10060; |
| View projects                     | &#9989; | &#9989;  |   &#9989;   | &#9989;  | &#9989;  | &#10060; |
| View project resources            | &#9989; | &#9989;  |   &#9989;   | &#9989;  | &#10060; | &#10060; |
| Request Organization deletion     | &#9989; | &#10060; |  &#10060;   | &#10060; | &#10060; | &#10060; |
| Manage SSO configuration          | &#9989; | &#9989;  |  &#10060;   | &#10060; | &#10060; | &#10060; |
| Manage billing resources          | &#9989; | &#9989;  |  &#10060;   | &#10060; | &#10060; | &#10060; |

The following tables provide additional ways to understand permissions, based on needs such as billing and SSO management.

<Tabs>

<Tab heading="Resource Manager" group="resource-manager">

| HCP organization permissions      | Organization IAM policies administrator |  Project Creator  |
| --------------------------------- | :-------------------------------------: |  :-------------:  |
| Add and delete users              |                &#10060;                 |     &#10060;      |
| Manage user permissions           |                 &#9989;                 |     &#10060;      |
| View users                        |                 &#9989;                 |      &#9989;      |
| View groups                       |                 &#9989;                 |      &#9989;      |
| Manage service principals         |                &#10060;                 |     &#10060;      |
| Manage groups                     |                &#10060;                 |     &#10060;      |
| View current billing status       |                &#10060;                 |     &#10060;      |
| Create projects                   |                &#10060;                 |      &#9989;      |
| View projects                     |                 &#9989;                 |     &#10060;      |
| View project resources            |                &#10060;                 |     &#10060;      |
| Request organization deletion     |                &#10060;                 |     &#10060;      |
| Manage SSO and SCIM configuration |                &#10060;                 |     &#10060;      |
| Manage billing resources          |                &#10060;                 |     &#10060;      |

</Tab>

<Tab heading="Billing" group="billing">

| HCP Organization permissions      | Billing administrator |
| --------------------------------- | :-------------------: |
| Add and delete users              |       &#10060;        |
| Manage user permissions           |       &#10060;        |
| View users                        |        &#9989;        |
| View groups                       |        &#9989;        |
| Manage service principals         |       &#10060;        |
| Manage groups                     |       &#10060;        |
| View current billing status       |        &#9989;        |
| Create projects                   |       &#10060;        |
| View projects                     |        &#9989;        |
| View project resources            |       &#10060;        |
| Request organization deletion     |       &#10060;        |
| Manage SSO and SCIM configuration |       &#10060;        |
| Manage billing resources          |        &#9989;        |

</Tab>

<Tab heading="IAM" group="iam">

| HCP organization permissions      | Group administrator | SSO administrator |
| --------------------------------- | :-----------------: | :---------------: |
| Add and delete users              |      &#10060;       |     &#10060;      |
| Manage user permissions           |      &#10060;       |     &#10060;      |
| View users                        |       &#9989;       |      &#9989;      |
| View groups                       |       &#9989;       |      &#9989;      |
| Manage service principals         |      &#10060;       |     &#10060;      |
| Manage groups                     |       &#9989;       |     &#10060;      |
| View current billing status       |      &#10060;       |     &#10060;      |
| Create projects                   |      &#10060;       |     &#10060;      |
| View projects                     |      &#10060;       |     &#10060;      |
| View project resources            |      &#10060;       |     &#10060;      |
| Request organization deletion     |      &#10060;       |     &#10060;      |
| Manage SSO and SCIM configuration |      &#10060;       |      &#9989;      |
| Manage billing resources          |      &#10060;       |     &#10060;      |

</Tab>

<Tab heading="HCP Terraform" group="hcptf">

| HCP Terraform organization permission | Admin | Contributor | Viewer |
|---------------------------------------|:-----:|:-----------:|:------:|
| Owner-level permissions | &#9989; | &#10060; | &#10060; |
| View all projects | &#9989; | &#9989; | &#9989; |
| Manage all projects | &#9989; | &#9989; | &#10060; |
| View all workspaces | &#9989; | &#9989; | &#9989; |
| Manage all workspaces | &#9989; | &#9989; | &#10060; |
| Manage organization access | &#9989; | &#10060; | &#10060; |
| Include secret groups | &#9989; | &#10060; | &#10060; |
| Manage policies | &#9989; | &#10060; | &#10060; |
| Manage policy overrides | &#9989; | &#10060; | &#10060; |
| Manage run tasks | &#9989; | &#10060; | &#10060; |
| Manage version control settings | &#9989; | &#10060; | &#10060; |
| Manage agent pools | &#9989; | &#10060; | &#10060; |
| Manage private registry modules | &#9989; | &#10060; | &#10060; |
| Manage private registry providers | &#9989; | &#10060; | &#10060; |
| Manage public registry modules | &#9989; | &#10060; | &#10060; |
| Manage public registry providers | &#9989; | &#10060; | &#10060; |
| Members can manage API tokens | &#9989; | &#9989; | &#10060; |

To learn more about each permission, refer to [HCP Terraform organization permissions](/terraform/cloud-docs/users-teams-organizations/permissions/organization).

</Tab>

</Tabs>

A user can be a part of an organization with no roles assigned directly to them through the [SSO default role settings](/hcp/docs/hcp/admin/iam/sso) or IAM settings. To enforce least-privileged access, new users will have a limited experience within the platform until an Admin assigns either an organization or project role to the user.

## View current role assignments

To view a list of current role assignments in an organization, perform the following steps:

1. At the top, click the dropdown to open the organization and project selector. Select **View all organizations**.
1. Click the name of the organization.
1. From the **Organization dashboard**, click **Access Control (IAM)**.

The **Role assignments** page lists the currently assigned roles and provides an interface to search and filter the current assignments.

## Project level roles and permissions

The following tables describe role permissions scope to the project level.

<Tabs>
<Tab heading="All Services" group="all-services">

| HCP project permissions             |  Owner  |  Admin  | Contributor |  Viewer  | Browser  |
| ----------------------------------- | :-----: | :-----: | :---------: | :------: | :------: |
| View project                        | &#9989; | &#9989; |   &#9989;   | &#9989;  | &#9989;  |
| View project resources              | &#9989; | &#9989; |   &#9989;   | &#9989;  | &#10060; |
| Edit project permissions            | &#9989; | &#9989; |  &#10060;   | &#10060; | &#10060; |
| Delete project                      | &#9989; | &#9989; |  &#10060;   | &#10060; | &#10060; |
| Create and delete project resources | &#9989; | &#9989; |   &#9989;   | &#10060; | &#10060; |
| Manage project service principals   | &#9989; | &#9989; |  &#10060;   | &#10060; | &#10060; |

</Tab>

<Tab heading="Vault Secrets" group="hvs">

| HCP project permissions                           | App manager | App secrets reader | Integration manager | Integration reader |
| ------------------------------------------------- | :---------: | :----------------- | :-----------------: | :----------------- |
| View project                                      |   &#9989;   | &#9989;            |      &#10060;       | &#10060;           |
| View project resources                            |   &#9989;   | &#9989;            |      &#10060;       | &#10060;           |
| Edit project permissions                          |  &#10060;   | &#10060;           |      &#10060;       | &#10060;           |
| Delete project                                    |  &#10060;   | &#10060;           |      &#10060;       | &#10060;           |
| Create and delete project Vault Secrets resources |   &#9989;   | &#10060;           |      &#10060;       | &#10060;           |
| Manage project service principals                 |  &#10060;   | &#10060;           |      &#10060;       | &#10060;           |
| Create sync integrations                          |  &#10060;   | &#10060;           |       &#9989;       | &#10060;           |
| Manage sync integrations                          |  &#10060;   | &#10060;           |       &#9989;       | &#10060;           |
| Delete sync integrations                          |  &#10060;   | &#10060;           |       &#9989;       | &#10060;           |
| Connect sync integrations                         |  &#10060;   | &#10060;           |       &#9989;       | &#10060;           |
| Disconnect sync integrations                      |  &#10060;   | &#10060;           |       &#9989;       | &#10060;           |
| Get integrations                                  |  &#10060;   | &#10060;           |       &#9989;       | &#9989;            |
| List integrations                                 |  &#10060;   | &#10060;           |       &#9989;       | &#9989;            |
| Create integrations                               |   &#9989;   | &#10060;           |       &#9989;       | &#10060;           |
| Update integrations                               |   &#9989;   | &#10060;           |       &#9989;       | &#10060;           |
| Delete integrations                               |   &#9989;   | &#10060;           |       &#9989;       | &#10060;           |
| Read rotating secrets                             |   &#9989;   | &#9989;            |       &#9989;       | &#10060;           |
| Create rotating secrets                           |  &#10060;   | &#10060;           |       &#9989;       | &#10060;           |
| Edit rotating secrets                             |   &#9989;   | &#10060;           |       &#9989;       | &#10060;           |
| Delete rotating secrets                           |   &#9989;   | &#10060;           |       &#9989;       | &#10060;           |
| Generate dynamic secrets credentials              |   &#9989;   | &#9989;            |       &#9989;       | &#10060;           |
| Create dynamic secrets                            |  &#10060;   | &#10060;           |       &#9989;       | &#10060;           |
| Edit dynamic secrets                              |  &#10060;   | &#10060;           |       &#9989;       | &#10060;           |
| Delete dynamic secrets                            |   &#9989;   | &#10060;           |       &#9989;       | &#10060;           |

From the IAM tab in the HCP UI, you can assign the App Manager, App Secrets Reader, Integration Manager, or Integration Reader roles to Users, Service Principals, and Groups at the Project level.

Refer to the [HCP Vault Secrets](/hcp/docs/vault-secrets/permissions)
documentation for more details.

</Tab>

<Tab heading="Resource Manager" group="resource-manager">

| HCP project permissions             | Project IAM policies administrator |
| ----------------------------------- | :--------------------------------: |
| View project                        |              &#9989;               |
| View project resources              |              &#10060;              |
| Edit project permissions            |              &#9989;               |
| Delete project                      |              &#10060;              |
| Create and delete project resources |              &#10060;              |
| Manage project service principals   |              &#10060;              |
| Manage group role for project       |              &#9989;               |

</Tab>


<Tab heading="HCP Terraform" group="hcptf">

| HCP Terraform permission name | Admin role | Contributor role | Viewer |
|--------------------------------|:----------:|:---------------:|:------:|
| Read project | &#9989; | &#9989; | &#9989; |
| Update project | &#9989; | &#10060; | &#10060; |
| Delete project | &#9989; | &#10060; | &#10060; |
| Create workspaces | &#9989; | &#10060; | &#10060; |
| Move workspaces | &#9989; | &#10060; | &#10060; |
| Delete workspaces | &#9989; | &#10060; | &#10060; |
| Manage teams | &#9989; | &#10060; | &#10060; |
| Apply runs | &#9989; | &#10060; | &#10060; |
| Plan runs | &#9989; | &#10060; | &#10060; |
| Read runs | &#9989; | &#10060; | &#9989; |
| Read and write variables | &#9989; | &#10060; | &#10060; |
| Read variables | &#9989; | &#10060; | &#9989; |
| Manage variable sets | &#9989; | &#10060; | &#10060; |
| Read variable sets | &#9989; | &#10060; | &#10060; |
| Read and write state | &#9989; | &#10060; | &#10060; |
| Read state | &#9989; | &#10060; | &#9989; |
| Download Sentinel mocks | &#9989; | &#10060; | &#10060; |
| Lock/unlock workspaces | &#9989; | &#10060; | &#10060; |
| Manage workspace Run Tasks | &#9989; | &#10060; | &#10060; |

To learn more about each permission, refer to [HCP Terraform project permissions](/terraform/cloud-docs/users-teams-organizations/permissions/project).

</Tab>

</Tabs>

## Assign a project role

@include '/hcp-administration/assign-project-role.mdx'

## Role names and role IDs

To interact with the HCP Access Management system using the [HCP Terraform provider](https://registry.terraform.io/providers/hashicorp/hcp/latest) or public APIs, you must properly format the role IDs you reference. The following able lists role names and the formatting of their Role IDs.

<Tabs>
<Tab heading="All Services" group="all-services">

| Role name   |             Role ID              |
| ----------- | :------------------------------: |
| Owner       |          `roles/owner`           |
| Admin       |          `roles/admin`           |
| Contributor |       `roles/contributor`        |
| Viewer      |          `roles/viewer`          |
| Browser     | `roles/resource-manager.browser` |

</Tab>

<Tab heading="Vault Secrets" group="hvs">

@include '/hcp-administration/role-name-and-id/vault-secrets.mdx'

</Tab>

<Tab heading="Resource Manager" group="resource-manager">

| Role name                               |                       Role ID                       |
| --------------------------------------- | :-------------------------------------------------: |
| Project IAM policies administrator      | `roles/resource-manager.project-iam-policies-admin` |
| Organization IAM policies administrator |   `roles/resource-manager.org-iam-policies-admin`   |
| Project Creator                         |       `roles/resource-manager.project-creator`      |

</Tab>

<Tab heading="Billing" group="billing">

| Role Name             |            Role ID            |
| --------------------- | :---------------------------: |
| Billing Administrator | `roles/billing.billing-admin` |

</Tab>

<Tab heading="IAM" group="iam">

| Role Name           |         Role ID         |
| ------------------- | :---------------------: |
| Group Administrator | `roles/iam.group-admin` |
| SSO Administrator   |  `roles/iam.sso-admin`  |

</Tab>

</Tabs>
