content/vault/v1.21.x/content/api-docs/system/quotas-config.mdx, before:

---
layout: api
page_title: /sys/quotas/config - HTTP API
description: The `/sys/quotas/config` endpoint is used to configure rate limit quotas.
---

# `/sys/quotas/config`

@include 'alerts/restricted-admin.mdx'


The `/sys/quotas/config` endpoint is used to configure rate limit quotas.

## Create or update the rate limit configuration

| Method | Path                 |
| :----- | :------------------- |
| `POST` | `/sys/quotas/config` |

### Parameters

- `rate_limit_exempt_paths` `([]string: [])` - Specifies the list of exempt paths
  from all rate limit quotas. Exempt paths are relative and apply to all
  namespaces. When `rate_limit_exempt_paths` is empty, Vault applies quotas to
  all relative paths. Access to exemption data is read-only from the admin namespace.
  **You cannot update `rate_limit_exempt_paths` from the admin namespace**
- `global_rate_limit_exempt_paths` `([]string: [])` -Specifies the list of
  exempt paths from all rate limit quotas. Global exempt paths are absolute and
  do not apply across namespaces. When `global_rate_limit_exempt_paths` is empty,
  Vault applies quotas to all absolute paths. You can only add, update, or delete
  global paths within the scope of the calling namespace.
- `enable_rate_limit_audit_logging` `(bool: false)` - If set, starts audit logging
  of requests that get rejected due to rate limit quota rule violations.
- `enable_rate_limit_response_headers` `(bool: false)` - If set, additional rate
  limit quota HTTP headers will be added to responses. These include:
  - `Retry-After`: If the request is blocked due to rate limiting, this will
    be a suggested time, in seconds, to wait before retry after. The time suggested
    will be the amount of time in seconds remaining before the rate limit quota
    applicable to this request is reset. Identical to the `X-Ratelimit-Reset` header.
  - `X-Ratelimit-Limit`: The limit of the rate limit quota applicable to this request.
  - `X-Ratelimit-Remaining`: The remaining requests in the current interval for the
    rate limit quota applicable to this request.
  - `X-Ratelimit-Reset` The amount of time in seconds remaining before the rate limit quota
    applicable to this request is reset. Identical to the `Retry-After` header.


### Sample payload

```json
{
  "rate_limit_exempt_paths": [
    "sys/internal/ui/mounts",
    "sys/generate-recovery-token/attempt",
    "sys/generate-recovery-token/update",
    "sys/generate-root/attempt",
    "sys/generate-root/update",
    "sys/health",
    "sys/seal-status",
    "sys/unseal"
  ],
  "enable_rate_limit_audit_logging": true,
  "enable_rate_limit_response_headers": true
}
```

### Sample request

```shell-session
$ curl \
    --request POST \
    --header "X-Vault-Token: ..." \
    --data @payload.json \
    http://127.0.0.1:8200/v1/sys/quotas/config
```

## Get the rate limit configuration

| Method | Path                 |
| :----- | :------------------- |
| `GET`  | `/sys/quotas/config` |

### Sample request

```shell-session
$ curl \
    --request GET \
    --header "X-Vault-Token: ..." \
    http://127.0.0.1:8200/v1/sys/quotas/config
```

### Sample response

```json
{
  "request_id": "259801bd-a0c9-9350-8eb9-26c91afd19c6",
  "lease_id": "",
  "lease_duration": 0,
  "renewable": false,
  "data": {
    "enable_rate_limit_audit_logging": false,
    "enable_rate_limit_response_headers": false,
    "rate_limit_exempt_paths": [
      "sys/internal/ui/mounts",
      "sys/generate-recovery-token/attempt",
      "sys/generate-recovery-token/update",
      "sys/generate-root/attempt",
      "sys/generate-root/update",
      "sys/health",
      "sys/seal-status",
      "sys/unseal"
    ]
  },
  "warnings": null
}
```

Commit message:

[SPE-1397] Fix the parameter names & description (#1542)
* Fix the parameter names & description

* Update content/vault/v1.17.x/content/api-docs/system/quotas-config.mdx

Co-authored-by: Sarah Chavis <62406755+schavis@users.noreply.github.com>

* Update content/vault/v1.16.x/content/api-docs/system/quotas-config.mdx

Co-authored-by: Sarah Chavis <62406755+schavis@users.noreply.github.com>

* Update content/vault/v1.18.x/content/api-docs/system/quotas-config.mdx

Co-authored-by: Sarah Chavis <62406755+schavis@users.noreply.github.com>

* Update content/vault/v1.19.x/content/api-docs/system/quotas-config.mdx

Co-authored-by: Sarah Chavis <62406755+schavis@users.noreply.github.com>

* Update content/vault/v1.20.x/content/api-docs/system/quotas-config.mdx

Co-authored-by: Sarah Chavis <62406755+schavis@users.noreply.github.com>

* Update content/vault/v1.21.x/content/api-docs/system/quotas-config.mdx

Co-authored-by: Sarah Chavis <62406755+schavis@users.noreply.github.com>

---------

Co-authored-by: Sarah Chavis <62406755+schavis@users.noreply.github.com>

content/vault/v1.21.x/content/api-docs/system/quotas-config.mdx, after:

---
layout: api
page_title: /sys/quotas/config - HTTP API
description: The `/sys/quotas/config` endpoint is used to configure rate limit quotas.
---

# `/sys/quotas/config`

@include 'alerts/restricted-admin.mdx'


The `/sys/quotas/config` endpoint is used to configure rate limit quotas.

## Create or update the rate limit configuration

| Method | Path                 |
| :----- | :------------------- |
| `POST` | `/sys/quotas/config` |

### Parameters

- `rate_limit_exempt_paths` `([]string: [])` - Specifies the list of exempt paths
  from all rate limit quotas. Exempt paths are relative and apply to all
  namespaces. When `rate_limit_exempt_paths` is empty, Vault applies quotas to
  all relative paths. Access to exemption data is read-only from the admin namespace.
  **You cannot update `rate_limit_exempt_paths` from the admin namespace**
- `absolute_rate_limit_exempt_paths` `([]string: [])` - Specifies the set of
  absolute paths exempted from all rate limit quotas. Leave
  `absolute_rate_limit_exempt_paths` empty to ensure Vault applies rate limits
  to all paths. You must call the endpoint from the root namespace to apply or
  modify rate limit exemptions.
- `enable_rate_limit_audit_logging` `(bool: false)` - If set, starts audit logging
  of requests that get rejected due to rate limit quota rule violations.
- `enable_rate_limit_response_headers` `(bool: false)` - If set, additional rate
  limit quota HTTP headers will be added to responses. These include:
  - `Retry-After`: If the request is blocked due to rate limiting, this will
    be a suggested time, in seconds, to wait before retry after. The time suggested
    will be the amount of time in seconds remaining before the rate limit quota
    applicable to this request is reset. Identical to the `X-Ratelimit-Reset` header.
  - `X-Ratelimit-Limit`: The limit of the rate limit quota applicable to this request.
  - `X-Ratelimit-Remaining`: The remaining requests in the current interval for the
    rate limit quota applicable to this request.
  - `X-Ratelimit-Reset` The amount of time in seconds remaining before the rate limit quota
    applicable to this request is reset. Identical to the `Retry-After` header.


### Sample payload

```json
{
  "rate_limit_exempt_paths": [
    "sys/internal/ui/mounts",
    "sys/generate-recovery-token/attempt",
    "sys/generate-recovery-token/update",
    "sys/generate-root/attempt",
    "sys/generate-root/update",
    "sys/health",
    "sys/seal-status",
    "sys/unseal"
  ],
  "enable_rate_limit_audit_logging": true,
  "enable_rate_limit_response_headers": true
}
```

### Sample request

```shell-session
$ curl \
    --request POST \
    --header "X-Vault-Token: ..." \
    --data @payload.json \
    http://127.0.0.1:8200/v1/sys/quotas/config
```

## Get the rate limit configuration

| Method | Path                 |
| :----- | :------------------- |
| `GET`  | `/sys/quotas/config` |

### Sample request

```shell-session
$ curl \
    --request GET \
    --header "X-Vault-Token: ..." \
    http://127.0.0.1:8200/v1/sys/quotas/config
```

### Sample response

```json
{
  "request_id": "259801bd-a0c9-9350-8eb9-26c91afd19c6",
  "lease_id": "",
  "lease_duration": 0,
  "renewable": false,
  "data": {
    "enable_rate_limit_audit_logging": false,
    "enable_rate_limit_response_headers": false,
    "rate_limit_exempt_paths": [
      "sys/internal/ui/mounts",
      "sys/generate-recovery-token/attempt",
      "sys/generate-recovery-token/update",
      "sys/generate-root/attempt",
      "sys/generate-root/update",
      "sys/health",
      "sys/seal-status",
      "sys/unseal"
    ]
  },
  "warnings": null
}
```
