content/terraform/v1.14.x (beta)/docs/language/block/stack/tfdeploy/deployment.mdx, before:

---
page_title: deployment block reference for Terraform Stack deployments
description: Use the `deployment` block to define how many times you want to deploy your Stack's infrastructure.
---

# `deployment` block reference

Use the `deployment` block to define how many times you want to deploy your Stack's infrastructure. You can define `deployment` blocks in a `<NAME>.tfdeploy.hcl` file, which is the deployment configuration file for your Stack.

## Background

<Note>

HCP Terraform supports up to a maximum of 20 deployments per Stack.

</Note>

The `deployment` block defines how to deploy your Stack's infrastructure. Each deployment represents a separate instance of your Stack infrastructure. Each deployment maintains its own isolated state data, wholly separated from other Stack deployments.

Each Stack requires at least one `deployment` block, and you can add additional `deployment` blocks every time you want to deploy your Stack's infrastructure again with different input values. To learn more, refer to [Define deployment configuration](/terraform/language/stacks/deploy/config).

In addition to the `deployment` block, you can define the following configuration blocks in a `tfdeploy.hcl` file:
- Use the [`deployment_auto_approve`](/terraform/language/block/stack/tfdeploy/deployment_auto_approve) block to define rules that automatically approve deployment plans based on specific conditions.
- Use the [`deployment_group`](/terraform/language/block/stack/tfdeploy/deployment_group) block to assign `deployment_auto_approve` rules to specific deployments.
- Use the [`identity_token`](/terraform/language/block/stack/tfdeploy/identity_token) block to authenticate a deployment with a provider configuration using OIDC.
- Use the [`store`](/terraform/language/block/stack/tfdeploy/store) block to define key-value secrets in your deployment configuration and use existing variable sets in HCP Terraform.
- Use the [`locals`](/terraform/language/block/locals) block to define local values that you can reuse within your deployment configuration.
- Use the [`publish_output`](/terraform/language/block/stack/tfdeploy/publish_output) block to output values that you want to be available to other Stacks.
- Use the [`upstream_input`](/terraform/language/block/stack/tfdeploy/upstream_input) block to source inputs from another Stack.


## Configuration model

The `deployment` block supports the following arguments:

- [`deployment "<LABEL>"`](#deployment) &nbsp; block
  - [`inputs`](#inputs) &nbsp; map
  - [`deployment_group`](#deployment_group) &nbsp; reference to deployment group
  - [`destroy`](#destroy) &nbsp; boolean
  - [`import`](#import) &nbsp; boolean

## Complete configuration

All available arguments are defined in the following `deployment` block:

```hcl
deployment "<LABEL>" {
  inputs = {
    <VARIABLE_NAME> = <VALUE>
  }
  deployment_group = "deployment_group.<NAME>"
  destroy = <BOOLEAN>
}
```

## Specification

A `deployment` block supports the following configuration.

### `deployment "<LABEL>"`

The label after the `deployment` keyword is a name for the deployment, which must be unique among all deployments in the same deployment configuration file. The name of a deployment can be any valid [identifier](/terraform/language/syntax/configuration#identifiers).

You cannot rename a deployment after HCP Terraform creates it. Changing a deployment label creates a new deployment with the new label and destroys the previous deployment.

The `deployment` block supports the following arguments:

| Argument | Description | Type | Required? |
| --- | --- | --- | --- |
| `inputs` | A mapping of Stack variable names to values for this deployment. | Map | Required |
| `deployment_group` | A reference to the group that this deployment belongs to. | Reference | Optional |
| `destroy` | A boolean flag that indicates whether HCP Terraform should destroy this deployment. | Boolean | Optional |

### `inputs`

The `inputs` argument defines a mapping of Stack variable names to values for this specific deployment.

```hcl
deployment "<LABEL>" {
  inputs = {
    <VARIABLE_NAME> = <VALUE>
    <VARIABLE_NAME_TWO> = <VALUE_TWO>
  }
}
```

The keys in the `inputs` map must correspond to the names of the variables defined in your component configuration, and the values must be valid HCL expressions that meet the type constraints of those variables. Input value expressions can reference `locals`, `identity_token`, `store`, and `upstream_value` blocks.

#### Summary

- Data type: Object
- Default: None
- Required: Yes


### `deployment_group`

<Note>

Deployment groups only support one deployment per group at this time.

</Note>

The `deployment_group` argument lets you specify the deployment group to group this deployment in.

```hcl

deployment_group "<LABEL>" {
  auto_approve_checks = [deployment_auto_approve.<LABEL>]
}



deployment "<LABEL>" {
  inputs = {
    <VARIABLE_NAME> = <VALUE>
    <VARIABLE_NAME_TWO> = <VALUE_TWO>
  }
  deployment_group = "deployment_group.<LABEL>"
}
```

You can use deployment groups to enable orchestration rules which can manage your deployment's lifecycle. For more details on deployment groups, refer to the [Set conditions for deployment runs](/terraform/language/stacks/deploy/conditions).

If a deployment does not specify a deployment group, Terraform automatically generates an independent deployment group for it named `<DEPLOYMENT_NAME>_default`.

#### Summary

- Data type: Reference
- Default: By default, Terraform automatically generates a deployment group for deployments that do not specify a group.
- Required: Yes

### `destroy`

The `destroy` argument lets you declare in configuration that HCP Terraform can destroy this deployment.

```hcl
deployment "<LABEL>" {
  inputs = {
    <VARIABLE_NAME> = <VALUE>
    <VARIABLE_NAME_TWO> = <VALUE_TWO>
  }
  destroy = true
}
```

Setting `destroy = true` tells HCP Terraform to remove this deployment from your Stack. After applying the plan, you can remove the `deployment` block corresponding to the destroyed deployment from your configuration.

We recommend using the `destroy` argument to remove deployments to ensure your configuration has the provider authentication necessary to destroy the deployment.

#### Summary

- Data type: Boolean
- Default: `false`

### `import`

The `import` argument is a placeholder for future functionality.

```hcl
deployment "<LABEL>" {
  inputs = {
    <VARIABLE_NAME> = <VALUE>
    <VARIABLE_NAME_TWO> = <VALUE_TWO>
  }
  import = <boolean>
}
```

<<<<<<< HEAD:content/terraform/v1.14.x (beta)/docs/language/stack/tfdeploy/deployment.mdx
Terraform migrate sets the `import` argument to let HCP Terraform know that the rest of the deployments in a Stack can continue plan as normal while the deployment with `import` is migrating state.

To learn more about migrating a workspace to a Stack deployment, refer to [Terraform migrate](/terraform/migrate/stacks).

=======
>>>>>>> main:content/terraform/v1.14.x (beta)/docs/language/block/stack/tfdeploy/deployment.mdx
#### Summary

- Data type: Boolean
- Default: `false`

## Examples

The following examples demonstrate common use cases for `deployment` blocks.

### Fundamental deployment

In the following example, the `production` deployment configures variable values for `aws_region`, `instance_count`, and `environment`:

```hcl
deployment "production" {
  inputs = {
    aws_region     = "us-west-1"
    instance_count = 2
    environment    = "production"
  }
}
```

The matching component configuration for this deployment, in a `tfcomponent.hcl` file, must include the same variable names and types as those defined in the `inputs` map.

The `production` deployment does not specify a `deployment_group`, so Terraform automatically generates a deployment group for it. The generated deployment group for the `production` deployment is named `production_default`.

### Set deployment group

In the following example, the `web` deployment is part of the `production` deployment group:

```hcl
deployment "web" {
  inputs = {
    aws_region     = "us-west-1"
    instance_count = 2
    environment    = "production"
  }

  deployment_group = "deployment_group.production"
}
```

You can use deployment groups to enable orchestration rules which can manage your deployment's lifecycle. For more details on deployment groups, refer to the [Set conditions for deployment runs](/terraform/language/stacks/deploy/conditions).

### Multiple deployments

In the following example, Terraform configures two deployments named `staging` and `production`:

```hcl
deployment "staging" {
  inputs = {
    aws_region     = "us-east-1"
    instance_count = 1
    environment    = "staging"
  }
}

deployment "production" {
  inputs = {
    aws_region     = "us-west-1"
    instance_count = 3
    environment    = "production"
  }
}
```

When you run this configuration, HCP Terraform creates two separate deployments that each use the same component configuration. The `staging` deployment uses the `us-east-1` region and has one instance, while the `production` deployment uses the `us-west-1` region and has three instances.

### Reference variable sets

In the following example, the `production` deployment retrieves `database_password` and `api_key` from a variable set in HCP Terraform, with the ID `varset-SEtkL6Bq91XujTsR`:

```hcl
store "varset" "secrets" {
  id       = "varset-SEtkL6Bq91XujTsR"
  category = "terraform"
}

deployment "production" {
  inputs = {
    database_password = store.varset.secrets.db_password
    api_key          = store.varset.secrets.api_key
    instance_count   = 5
  }
}
```

To learn more about referencing variable sets from HCP Terraform in your Stack deployments, refer to the [`store` block](/terraform/language/block/stack/tfdeploy/store).

### Authenticate with identity tokens

In the following example, the `production` deployment uses the JWT from `identity_token.aws.jwt` for OIDC authentication with the `aws` provider:

```hcl
identity_token "aws" {
  audience = ["aws.workload.identity"]
}

deployment "production" {
  inputs = {
    aws_region = "us-west-2"
    role_arn   = "arn:aws:iam::123456789012:role/my-oidc-role"
    aws_token  = identity_token.aws.jwt
  }
}
```

Stacks have a built-in `identity_token` block that creates workload identity tokens, also known as JWT tokens. You can use these tokens to authenticate Stacks with Terraform providers securely. To learn more, refer to [Authenticate a Stack](/terraform/language/stacks/deploy/authenticate).

### Pass values between Stacks

In the following example, the `application` deployment exposes a `vpc_id` output and retrieves the `private_subnet_ids` from an upstream Stack named `networking`:

```hcl
publish_output "vpc_id" {
  description = "The networking Stack's VPC's ID."
  value       = application.network.vpc_id
}

upstream_input "network_stack" {
  type   = "stack"
  source = "app.terraform.io/<ORGANIZATION_NAME>/<PROJECT_NAME>/networking"
}

deployment "application" {
  inputs = {
    subnet_ids       = upstream_input.network_stack.private_subnet_ids
    instance_count   = 3
  }
}
```

After applying your configuration, any Stack in the same project can now reference your `application` deployment's `vpc_id` output by declaring an `upstream_input` block. To learn more about linking Stacks together, refer to [Pass data from one Stack to another](/terraform/language/stacks/deploy/pass-data).

### Destroy a deployment

To destroy a deployment, set the `destroy` argument to `true` on a `deployment` block. In the following example, the `web` deployment is marked for destruction:

```hcl
deployment "web" {
  inputs = {
    aws_region     = "us-west-1"
    instance_count = 2
    environment    = "production"
  }

  destroy = true
}
```

When you run a plan for this deployment, HCP Terraform destroys the `web` deployment. After applying the plan, you can remove the `web` deployment block from your configuration.

Commit message:

Clean up the migrate links

content/terraform/v1.14.x (beta)/docs/language/block/stack/tfdeploy/deployment.mdx, after:

---
page_title: deployment block reference for Terraform Stack deployments
description: Use the `deployment` block to define how many times you want to deploy your Stack's infrastructure.
---

# `deployment` block reference

Use the `deployment` block to define how many times you want to deploy your Stack's infrastructure. You can define `deployment` blocks in a `<NAME>.tfdeploy.hcl` file, which is the deployment configuration file for your Stack.

## Background

<Note>

HCP Terraform supports up to a maximum of 20 deployments per Stack.

</Note>

The `deployment` block defines how to deploy your Stack's infrastructure. Each deployment represents a separate instance of your Stack infrastructure. Each deployment maintains its own isolated state data, wholly separated from other Stack deployments.

Each Stack requires at least one `deployment` block, and you can add additional `deployment` blocks every time you want to deploy your Stack's infrastructure again with different input values. To learn more, refer to [Define deployment configuration](/terraform/language/stacks/deploy/config).

In addition to the `deployment` block, you can define the following configuration blocks in a `tfdeploy.hcl` file:
- Use the [`deployment_auto_approve`](/terraform/language/block/stack/tfdeploy/deployment_auto_approve) block to define rules that automatically approve deployment plans based on specific conditions.
- Use the [`deployment_group`](/terraform/language/block/stack/tfdeploy/deployment_group) block to assign `deployment_auto_approve` rules to specific deployments.
- Use the [`identity_token`](/terraform/language/block/stack/tfdeploy/identity_token) block to authenticate a deployment with a provider configuration using OIDC.
- Use the [`store`](/terraform/language/block/stack/tfdeploy/store) block to define key-value secrets in your deployment configuration and use existing variable sets in HCP Terraform.
- Use the [`locals`](/terraform/language/block/locals) block to define local values that you can reuse within your deployment configuration.
- Use the [`publish_output`](/terraform/language/block/stack/tfdeploy/publish_output) block to output values that you want to be available to other Stacks.
- Use the [`upstream_input`](/terraform/language/block/stack/tfdeploy/upstream_input) block to source inputs from another Stack.


## Configuration model

The `deployment` block supports the following arguments:

- [`deployment "<LABEL>"`](#deployment) &nbsp; block
  - [`inputs`](#inputs) &nbsp; map
  - [`deployment_group`](#deployment_group) &nbsp; reference to deployment group
  - [`destroy`](#destroy) &nbsp; boolean
  - [`import`](#import) &nbsp; boolean

## Complete configuration

All available arguments are defined in the following `deployment` block:

```hcl
deployment "<LABEL>" {
  inputs = {
    <VARIABLE_NAME> = <VALUE>
  }
  deployment_group = "deployment_group.<NAME>"
  destroy = <BOOLEAN>
}
```

## Specification

A `deployment` block supports the following configuration.

### `deployment "<LABEL>"`

The label after the `deployment` keyword is a name for the deployment, which must be unique among all deployments in the same deployment configuration file. The name of a deployment can be any valid [identifier](/terraform/language/syntax/configuration#identifiers).

You cannot rename a deployment after HCP Terraform creates it. Changing a deployment label creates a new deployment with the new label and destroys the previous deployment.

The `deployment` block supports the following arguments:

| Argument | Description | Type | Required? |
| --- | --- | --- | --- |
| `inputs` | A mapping of Stack variable names to values for this deployment. | Map | Required |
| `deployment_group` | A reference to the group that this deployment belongs to. | Reference | Optional |
| `destroy` | A boolean flag that indicates whether HCP Terraform should destroy this deployment. | Boolean | Optional |

### `inputs`

The `inputs` argument defines a mapping of Stack variable names to values for this specific deployment.

```hcl
deployment "<LABEL>" {
  inputs = {
    <VARIABLE_NAME> = <VALUE>
    <VARIABLE_NAME_TWO> = <VALUE_TWO>
  }
}
```

The keys in the `inputs` map must correspond to the names of the variables defined in your component configuration, and the values must be valid HCL expressions that meet the type constraints of those variables. Input value expressions can reference `locals`, `identity_token`, `store`, and `upstream_value` blocks.

#### Summary

- Data type: Object
- Default: None
- Required: Yes


### `deployment_group`

<Note>

Deployment groups only support one deployment per group at this time.

</Note>

The `deployment_group` argument lets you specify the deployment group to group this deployment in.

```hcl

deployment_group "<LABEL>" {
  auto_approve_checks = [deployment_auto_approve.<LABEL>]
}



deployment "<LABEL>" {
  inputs = {
    <VARIABLE_NAME> = <VALUE>
    <VARIABLE_NAME_TWO> = <VALUE_TWO>
  }
  deployment_group = "deployment_group.<LABEL>"
}
```

You can use deployment groups to enable orchestration rules which can manage your deployment's lifecycle. For more details on deployment groups, refer to the [Set conditions for deployment runs](/terraform/language/stacks/deploy/conditions).

If a deployment does not specify a deployment group, Terraform automatically generates an independent deployment group for it named `<DEPLOYMENT_NAME>_default`.

#### Summary

- Data type: Reference
- Default: By default, Terraform automatically generates a deployment group for deployments that do not specify a group.
- Required: Yes

### `destroy`

The `destroy` argument lets you declare in configuration that HCP Terraform can destroy this deployment.

```hcl
deployment "<LABEL>" {
  inputs = {
    <VARIABLE_NAME> = <VALUE>
    <VARIABLE_NAME_TWO> = <VALUE_TWO>
  }
  destroy = true
}
```

Setting `destroy = true` tells HCP Terraform to remove this deployment from your Stack. After applying the plan, you can remove the `deployment` block corresponding to the destroyed deployment from your configuration.

We recommend using the `destroy` argument to remove deployments to ensure your configuration has the provider authentication necessary to destroy the deployment.

#### Summary

- Data type: Boolean
- Default: `false`

### `import`

The `tf-migrate` CLI can migrate the state of an existing HCP Terraform workspace to a Stack deployment. The `tf-migrate` CLI automatically sets the `import` argument to `true` when importing the state of an existing workspace to a specific deployment.

```hcl
deployment "<LABEL>" {
  inputs = {
    <VARIABLE_NAME> = <VALUE>
    <VARIABLE_NAME_TWO> = <VALUE_TWO>
  }
  import = <boolean>
}
```

Terraform migrate sets the `import` argument to let HCP Terraform know that the rest of the deployments in a Stack can continue plan as normal while the deployment with `import` is migrating state.

To learn more about migrating a workspace to a Stack deployment, refer to [Terraform migrate](/terraform/migrate/stacks).

#### Summary

- Data type: Boolean
- Default: `false`

## Examples

The following examples demonstrate common use cases for `deployment` blocks.

### Fundamental deployment

In the following example, the `production` deployment configures variable values for `aws_region`, `instance_count`, and `environment`:

```hcl
deployment "production" {
  inputs = {
    aws_region     = "us-west-1"
    instance_count = 2
    environment    = "production"
  }
}
```

The matching component configuration for this deployment, in a `tfcomponent.hcl` file, must include the same variable names and types as those defined in the `inputs` map.

The `production` deployment does not specify a `deployment_group`, so Terraform automatically generates a deployment group for it. The generated deployment group for the `production` deployment is named `production_default`.

### Set deployment group

In the following example, the `web` deployment is part of the `production` deployment group:

```hcl
deployment "web" {
  inputs = {
    aws_region     = "us-west-1"
    instance_count = 2
    environment    = "production"
  }

  deployment_group = "deployment_group.production"
}
```

You can use deployment groups to enable orchestration rules which can manage your deployment's lifecycle. For more details on deployment groups, refer to the [Set conditions for deployment runs](/terraform/language/stacks/deploy/conditions).

### Multiple deployments

In the following example, Terraform configures two deployments named `staging` and `production`:

```hcl
deployment "staging" {
  inputs = {
    aws_region     = "us-east-1"
    instance_count = 1
    environment    = "staging"
  }
}

deployment "production" {
  inputs = {
    aws_region     = "us-west-1"
    instance_count = 3
    environment    = "production"
  }
}
```

When you run this configuration, HCP Terraform creates two separate deployments that each use the same component configuration. The `staging` deployment uses the `us-east-1` region and has one instance, while the `production` deployment uses the `us-west-1` region and has three instances.

### Reference variable sets

In the following example, the `production` deployment retrieves `database_password` and `api_key` from a variable set in HCP Terraform, with the ID `varset-SEtkL6Bq91XujTsR`:

```hcl
store "varset" "secrets" {
  id       = "varset-SEtkL6Bq91XujTsR"
  category = "terraform"
}

deployment "production" {
  inputs = {
    database_password = store.varset.secrets.db_password
    api_key          = store.varset.secrets.api_key
    instance_count   = 5
  }
}
```

To learn more about referencing variable sets from HCP Terraform in your Stack deployments, refer to the [`store` block](/terraform/language/block/stack/tfdeploy/store).

### Authenticate with identity tokens

In the following example, the `production` deployment uses the JWT from `identity_token.aws.jwt` for OIDC authentication with the `aws` provider:

```hcl
identity_token "aws" {
  audience = ["aws.workload.identity"]
}

deployment "production" {
  inputs = {
    aws_region = "us-west-2"
    role_arn   = "arn:aws:iam::123456789012:role/my-oidc-role"
    aws_token  = identity_token.aws.jwt
  }
}
```

Stacks have a built-in `identity_token` block that creates workload identity tokens, also known as JWT tokens. You can use these tokens to authenticate Stacks with Terraform providers securely. To learn more, refer to [Authenticate a Stack](/terraform/language/stacks/deploy/authenticate).

### Pass values between Stacks

In the following example, the `application` deployment exposes a `vpc_id` output and retrieves the `private_subnet_ids` from an upstream Stack named `networking`:

```hcl
publish_output "vpc_id" {
  description = "The networking Stack's VPC's ID."
  value       = application.network.vpc_id
}

upstream_input "network_stack" {
  type   = "stack"
  source = "app.terraform.io/<ORGANIZATION_NAME>/<PROJECT_NAME>/networking"
}

deployment "application" {
  inputs = {
    subnet_ids       = upstream_input.network_stack.private_subnet_ids
    instance_count   = 3
  }
}
```

After applying your configuration, any Stack in the same project can now reference your `application` deployment's `vpc_id` output by declaring an `upstream_input` block. To learn more about linking Stacks together, refer to [Pass data from one Stack to another](/terraform/language/stacks/deploy/pass-data).

### Destroy a deployment

To destroy a deployment, set the `destroy` argument to `true` on a `deployment` block. In the following example, the `web` deployment is marked for destruction:

```hcl
deployment "web" {
  inputs = {
    aws_region     = "us-west-1"
    instance_count = 2
    environment    = "production"
  }

  destroy = true
}
```

When you run a plan for this deployment, HCP Terraform destroys the `web` deployment. After applying the plan, you can remove the `web` deployment block from your configuration.
