content/terraform-enterprise/v202401-1/docs/enterprise/flexible-deployments/install/docker/install.mdx, before:

---
page_title: Docker - Installation - Flexible Deployment Options - Terraform Enterprise
description: >-
  Learn how to install Terraform Enterprise Flexible Deployment Options
  on Docker.
---

# Docker installation

Below we walkthrough how to run Terraform Enterprise on Docker using Docker
Compose. You do not have to deploy using Docker Compose, but we recommend it
in order to simplify managing the necessary Docker volumes and container configuration.

## 1. Requirements

Before you begin, ensure you meet the [shared requirements](/terraform/enterprise/flexible-deployments/install/requirements) and Docker [requirements](/terraform/enterprise/flexible-deployments/install/docker/requirements).

## 2. Set up

  1. Connect to the instance where you will run Terraform Enterprise.

  1. Create a new directory dedicated for Terraform Enterprise Flexible Deployment Option installation files, and change into it.

  1. Create a `certs` directory and place your TLS certificate (`cert.pem`), TLS
  private key (`key.pem`), and CA certificates bundle (`bundle.pem`) inside.
  If you don’t have a CA certificates bundle, just place your TLS certificate
  (`cert.pem`) inside `bundle.pem` instead. When finished, the `certs`
  directory should look like this:

  ```sh
  certs
  ├── cert.pem
  ├── key.pem
  └── bundle.pem
  ```

  1. Create a `compose.yaml` file and populate it with your desired deployment
  configuration. Be sure to replace values enclosed in `<>` with your actual
  values (e.g., Set `TFE_HOSTNAME` to the DNS hostname you’ll be using to
  access Terraform Enterprise). Below are Compose examples for each [Terraform Enterprise operational mode](/terraform/enterprise/flexible-deployments/install/operation-modes):

  * [Mounted Disk](#mounted-disk)
  * [External Services](#external-services)
  * [Active/Active](#active-active)

    You can also rely on the [configuration reference](/terraform/enterprise/flexible-deployments/install/configuration) for a detailed breakdown of the whole environment configuration.

## 3. Download and install

  1. Log in to the Terraform Enterprise container image registry, using `terraform`
  as the username, and your Hashicorp Terraform Enterprise license as the password:

    ```shell-session
    $ echo "<HASHICORP_LICENSE>" |  docker login --username terraform images.releases.hashicorp.com --password-stdin
    ```

  1. Pull the Terraform Enterprise image from the registry.

  ```shell-session
  $ docker pull images.releases.hashicorp.com/hashicorp/terraform-enterprise:<vYYYYMM-#>
  ```

## 4. Run

  1. Spin up your Terraform Enterprise container by running:

  ```shell-session
  $ docker compose up --detach
  ```

  1. In a separate terminal session you can monitor the logs by running the following command:

  ```shell-session
  $ docker compose logs --follow
  ```

  1. Monitor the health of the application until it starts reporting healthy with the following command:

  ```shell-session
  $ docker compose exec tfe tfe-health-check-status
  ```

  1. **Active/Active only**: Repeat the above steps for each node in the installation.

## 5. Create initial admin user

[Provision your first administrative user](/terraform/enterprise/flexible-deployments/install/initial-admin-user) and start using Terraform Enterprise.

## Example configurations

Below we provide several example Docker Compose configurations as a starting
point. These examples do not provide an exhaustive list of configuration options.
Refer to [Configuration Reference](/terraform/enterprise/flexible-deployments/install/configuration)
for a list of all configuration options.

Please refer to the [Docker Compose documentation](https://docs.docker.com/compose/)
for further details on installing, configuring, and running Docker Compose.

-> **Note:** Docker container lifecycles can be managed through Docker's
[restart policy](https://docs.docker.com/config/containers/start-containers-automatically/#use-a-restart-policy).
Refer to the Docker documentation for more details. We recommend relying on Docker's
native lifecycle management to automatically restart TFE containers that fail due
to transient network or infrastructure issues.

### Mounted disk

This Compose YAML deploys Terraform Enterprise in mounted disk mode, using a bind
mount to make available the disk path used for TFE data storage.

This configuration uses a bind mount to store Terraform Enterprise application
data. The path you specify as the source of the bind mount must exist on the
instance running Terraform Enterprise. This path must be backed by durable
storage as provided by your cloud provider (such as Elastic Block Storage for AWS).

```yaml
---
name: terraform-enterprise
services:
  tfe:
    image: images.releases.hashicorp.com/hashicorp/terraform-enterprise:<vYYYYMM-#>
    environment:
      TFE_LICENSE: "<Hashicorp license>"
      TFE_HOSTNAME: "<TFE hostname (DNS) e.g. terraform.example.com>"
      TFE_ENCRYPTION_PASSWORD: "<Encryption password>"
      TFE_OPERATIONAL_MODE: "disk"
      TFE_DISK_CACHE_VOLUME_NAME: "${COMPOSE_PROJECT_NAME}_terraform-enterprise-cache"
      TFE_TLS_CERT_FILE: "/etc/ssl/private/terraform-enterprise/cert.pem"
      TFE_TLS_KEY_FILE: "/etc/ssl/private/terraform-enterprise/key.pem"
      TFE_TLS_CA_BUNDLE_FILE: "/etc/ssl/private/terraform-enterprise/bundle.pem"
      TFE_IACT_SUBNETS: "<IACT subnet, eg. 10.0.0.0/8,192.168.0.0/24>"
    cap_add:
      - IPC_LOCK
    read_only: true
    tmpfs:
      - /tmp:mode=01777
      - /run
      - /var/log/terraform-enterprise
    ports:
      - "80:80"
      - "443:443"
    volumes:
      - type: bind
        source: /var/run/docker.sock
        target: /run/docker.sock
      - type: bind
        source: ./certs
        target: /etc/ssl/private/terraform-enterprise
      - type: bind
        source: <mounted_disk_path_on_host>
        target: /var/lib/terraform-enterprise
      - type: volume
        source: terraform-enterprise-cache
        target: /var/cache/tfe-task-worker/terraform
volumes:
  terraform-enterprise-cache:
```

### External services

An external services deployment requires the following:
- [PostgreSQL](/terraform/enterprise/flexible-deployments/install/requirements/data-storage/postgres-requirements) database server
- Blob Storage (AWS S3, Azure Cloud Storage, Google Cloud Storage, or any S3-compatible storage service)

This Compose YAML deploys Terraform Enterprise in external services mode,
expecting that you will bring an external PostgreSQL server and an external
S3-compatible object storage server.

```yaml
---
name: terraform-enterprise
services:
  tfe:
    image: images.releases.hashicorp.com/hashicorp/terraform-enterprise:<vYYYYMM-#>
    environment:
      TFE_LICENSE: "<Hashicorp license>"
      TFE_HOSTNAME: "<TFE hostname (DNS) e.g. terraform.example.com>"
      TFE_ENCRYPTION_PASSWORD: "<Encryption password>"
      TFE_OPERATIONAL_MODE: "external"
      TFE_DISK_CACHE_VOLUME_NAME: "${COMPOSE_PROJECT_NAME}_terraform-enterprise-cache"
      TFE_TLS_CERT_FILE: "/etc/ssl/private/terraform-enterprise/cert.pem"
      TFE_TLS_KEY_FILE: "/etc/ssl/private/terraform-enterprise/key.pem"
      TFE_TLS_CA_BUNDLE_FILE: "/etc/ssl/private/terraform-enterprise/bundle.pem"
      TFE_IACT_SUBNETS: "<IACT subnet, eg. 10.0.0.0/8,192.168.0.0/24>"

      # Database settings. See the configuration reference for more settings.
      TFE_DATABASE_USER: "<Database user e.g. postgres>"
      TFE_DATABASE_PASSWORD: "<Database password e.g. postgres>"
      TFE_DATABASE_HOST: "<Database hostname and port e.g. postgres:5432>"
      TFE_DATABASE_NAME: "<Database name e.g. hashicorp>"
      TFE_DATABASE_PARAMETERS: "<Database parameters e.g. sslmode=disable>"

      # Object storage settings. See the configuration reference for more settings.
      TFE_OBJECT_STORAGE_TYPE: "s3"
      TFE_OBJECT_STORAGE_S3_ACCESS_KEY_ID: "<AWS Access Key ID>"
      TFE_OBJECT_STORAGE_S3_SECRET_ACCESS_KEY: "<AWS Secret Access Key>"
      TFE_OBJECT_STORAGE_S3_REGION: "<AWS Region e.g.us-east-1>"
      TFE_OBJECT_STORAGE_S3_BUCKET: "<Bucket name>"
    cap_add:
      - IPC_LOCK
    read_only: true
    tmpfs:
      - /tmp:mode=01777
      - /run
      - /var/log/terraform-enterprise
    ports:
      - "80:80"
      - "443:443"
    volumes:
      - type: bind
        source: /var/run/docker.sock
        target: /run/docker.sock
      - type: bind
        source: ./certs
        target: /etc/ssl/private/terraform-enterprise
      - type: volume
        source: terraform-enterprise-cache
        target: /var/cache/tfe-task-worker/terraform
volumes:
  terraform-enterprise-cache:
```

### Active/Active

An active/active deployment requires the following:
- [PostgreSQL](/terraform/enterprise/flexible-deployments/install/requirements/data-storage/postgres-requirements) database server
- Blob Storage (AWS S3, Azure Cloud Storage, Google Cloud Storage, or any S3-compatible storage service)
- Redis version 6 or 7 (Redis Cluster is not currently supported.)

This Compose YAML deploys Terraform Enterprise in active/active mode, expecting
that you will bring an external PostgreSQL server, an external S3-compatible
object storage server, and an external Redis-compatible caching server.

```yaml
---
name: terraform-enterprise
services:
  tfe:
    image: images.releases.hashicorp.com/hashicorp/terraform-enterprise:<vYYYYMM-#>
    environment:
      TFE_LICENSE: "<Hashicorp license>"
      TFE_HOSTNAME: "<TFE hostname (DNS) e.g. terraform.example.com>"
      TFE_ENCRYPTION_PASSWORD: "<Encryption password>"
      TFE_OPERATIONAL_MODE: "active-active"
      TFE_DISK_CACHE_VOLUME_NAME: "${COMPOSE_PROJECT_NAME}_terraform-enterprise-cache"
      TFE_TLS_CERT_FILE: "/etc/ssl/private/terraform-enterprise/cert.pem"
      TFE_TLS_KEY_FILE: "/etc/ssl/private/terraform-enterprise/key.pem"
      TFE_TLS_CA_BUNDLE_FILE: "/etc/ssl/private/terraform-enterprise/bundle.pem"
      TFE_IACT_SUBNETS: "<IACT subnet, eg. 10.0.0.0/8,192.168.0.0/24>"

      # Database settings. See the configuration reference for more settings.
      TFE_DATABASE_USER: "<Database user e.g. postgres>"
      TFE_DATABASE_PASSWORD: "<Database password e.g. postgres>"
      TFE_DATABASE_HOST: "<Database hostname and port e.g. postgres:5432>"
      TFE_DATABASE_NAME: "<Database name e.g. hashicorp>"
      TFE_DATABASE_PARAMETERS: "<Database parameters e.g. sslmode=disable>"

      # Object storage settings. See the configuration reference for more settings.
      TFE_OBJECT_STORAGE_TYPE: "s3"
      TFE_OBJECT_STORAGE_S3_ACCESS_KEY_ID: "<AWS Access Key ID>"
      TFE_OBJECT_STORAGE_S3_SECRET_ACCESS_KEY: "<AWS Secret Access Key>"
      TFE_OBJECT_STORAGE_S3_REGION: "<AWS Region e.g.us-east-1>"
      TFE_OBJECT_STORAGE_S3_BUCKET: "<Bucket name>"

      # Redis settings. See the configuration reference for more settings.
      TFE_REDIS_HOST: "<Redis hostname and port e.g. redis:6379>"
      TFE_REDIS_USER: "<Redis username>"
      TFE_REDIS_PASSWORD: "<Redis password>"
      TFE_REDIS_USE_TLS: "<To use tls? e.g. false>"
      TFE_REDIS_USE_AUTH: "<To use customized credential to authenticate? e.g. false>"

      # Vault cluster settings.
      # If you are using the default internal vault, this should be the private routable IP address of the node itself.
      TFE_VAULT_CLUSTER_ADDRESS: "https://<private_ip_of_the_node>:8201"
    cap_add:
      - IPC_LOCK
    read_only: true
    tmpfs:
      - /tmp:mode=01777
      - /run
      - /var/log/terraform-enterprise
    ports:
      - "80:80"
      - "443:443"
      - "8201:8201"
    volumes:
      - type: bind
        source: /var/run/docker.sock
        target: /run/docker.sock
      - type: bind
        source: ./certs
        target: /etc/ssl/private/terraform-enterprise
      - type: volume
        source: terraform-enterprise-cache
        target: /var/cache/tfe-task-worker/terraform
volumes:
  terraform-enterprise-cache:
```

## Service Management

This document provides example configuration for using Docker Compose as the
management tool to run Terraform Enterprise as a single Docker container.
Managing the lifecycle of Docker Compose is outside the scope of this document.
For convenience, we have included examples of possible options for managing
Docker Compose on your Linux host.

### Systemd

You can use `systemd` to automatically run `docker compose` on system start using
the example below. Save the below file as `/etc/systemd/system/terraform-enterprise.service`:

```ini
[Unit]
Description=Terraform Enterprise Service
Requires=docker.service
After=docker.service network.target

[Service]
Type=oneshot
RemainAfterExit=yes
WorkingDirectory=/etc/terraform-enterprise
ExecStart=/usr/local/bin/docker compose up -d
ExecStop=/usr/local/bin/docker compose down
TimeoutStartSec=0

[Install]
WantedBy=multi-user.target
```

Enable this service with the following command.

```shell-session
$ systemctl enable --now terraform-enterprise
```

Commit message:

Guide users to the releases page and explicitly state that "latest" is not a valid tag in this case.

content/terraform-enterprise/v202401-1/docs/enterprise/flexible-deployments/install/docker/install.mdx, after:

---
page_title: Docker - Installation - Flexible Deployment Options - Terraform Enterprise
description: >-
  Learn how to install Terraform Enterprise Flexible Deployment Options
  on Docker.
---

# Docker installation

Below we walkthrough how to run Terraform Enterprise on Docker using Docker
Compose. You do not have to deploy using Docker Compose, but we recommend it
in order to simplify managing the necessary Docker volumes and container configuration.

## 1. Requirements

Before you begin, ensure you meet the [shared requirements](/terraform/enterprise/flexible-deployments/install/requirements) and Docker [requirements](/terraform/enterprise/flexible-deployments/install/docker/requirements).

## 2. Set up

  1. Connect to the instance where you will run Terraform Enterprise.

  1. Create a new directory dedicated for Terraform Enterprise Flexible Deployment Option installation files, and change into it.

  1. Create a `certs` directory and place your TLS certificate (`cert.pem`), TLS
  private key (`key.pem`), and CA certificates bundle (`bundle.pem`) inside.
  If you don’t have a CA certificates bundle, just place your TLS certificate
  (`cert.pem`) inside `bundle.pem` instead. When finished, the `certs`
  directory should look like this:

  ```sh
  certs
  ├── cert.pem
  ├── key.pem
  └── bundle.pem
  ```

  1. Create a `compose.yaml` file and populate it with your desired deployment
  configuration. Be sure to replace values enclosed in `<>` with your actual
  values (e.g., Set `TFE_HOSTNAME` to the DNS hostname you’ll be using to
  access Terraform Enterprise). Below are Compose examples for each [Terraform Enterprise operational mode](/terraform/enterprise/flexible-deployments/install/operation-modes):

  * [Mounted Disk](#mounted-disk)
  * [External Services](#external-services)
  * [Active/Active](#active-active)

    You can also rely on the [configuration reference](/terraform/enterprise/flexible-deployments/install/configuration) for a detailed breakdown of the whole environment configuration.

## 3. Download and install

  1. Log in to the Terraform Enterprise container image registry, using `terraform`
  as the username, and your Hashicorp Terraform Enterprise license as the password:

    ```shell-session
    $ echo "<HASHICORP_LICENSE>" |  docker login --username terraform images.releases.hashicorp.com --password-stdin
    ```

  1. Pull the Terraform Enterprise image from the registry.  Refer to [Terraform Enterprise Releases](https://developer.hashicorp.com/terraform/enterprise/releases) for a list of versions and replace `<vYYYYMM-#>` with the version you wish to install; `latest` is not a valid tag.  

  ```shell-session
  $ docker pull images.releases.hashicorp.com/hashicorp/terraform-enterprise:<vYYYYMM-#>
  ```

## 4. Run

  1. Spin up your Terraform Enterprise container by running:

  ```shell-session
  $ docker compose up --detach
  ```

  1. In a separate terminal session you can monitor the logs by running the following command:

  ```shell-session
  $ docker compose logs --follow
  ```

  1. Monitor the health of the application until it starts reporting healthy with the following command:

  ```shell-session
  $ docker compose exec tfe tfe-health-check-status
  ```

  1. **Active/Active only**: Repeat the above steps for each node in the installation.

## 5. Create initial admin user

[Provision your first administrative user](/terraform/enterprise/flexible-deployments/install/initial-admin-user) and start using Terraform Enterprise.

## Example configurations

Below we provide several example Docker Compose configurations as a starting
point. These examples do not provide an exhaustive list of configuration options.
Refer to [Configuration Reference](/terraform/enterprise/flexible-deployments/install/configuration)
for a list of all configuration options.

Please refer to the [Docker Compose documentation](https://docs.docker.com/compose/)
for further details on installing, configuring, and running Docker Compose.

-> **Note:** Docker container lifecycles can be managed through Docker's
[restart policy](https://docs.docker.com/config/containers/start-containers-automatically/#use-a-restart-policy).
Refer to the Docker documentation for more details. We recommend relying on Docker's
native lifecycle management to automatically restart TFE containers that fail due
to transient network or infrastructure issues.

### Mounted disk

This Compose YAML deploys Terraform Enterprise in mounted disk mode, using a bind
mount to make available the disk path used for TFE data storage.

This configuration uses a bind mount to store Terraform Enterprise application
data. The path you specify as the source of the bind mount must exist on the
instance running Terraform Enterprise. This path must be backed by durable
storage as provided by your cloud provider (such as Elastic Block Storage for AWS).

```yaml
---
name: terraform-enterprise
services:
  tfe:
    image: images.releases.hashicorp.com/hashicorp/terraform-enterprise:<vYYYYMM-#>
    environment:
      TFE_LICENSE: "<Hashicorp license>"
      TFE_HOSTNAME: "<TFE hostname (DNS) e.g. terraform.example.com>"
      TFE_ENCRYPTION_PASSWORD: "<Encryption password>"
      TFE_OPERATIONAL_MODE: "disk"
      TFE_DISK_CACHE_VOLUME_NAME: "${COMPOSE_PROJECT_NAME}_terraform-enterprise-cache"
      TFE_TLS_CERT_FILE: "/etc/ssl/private/terraform-enterprise/cert.pem"
      TFE_TLS_KEY_FILE: "/etc/ssl/private/terraform-enterprise/key.pem"
      TFE_TLS_CA_BUNDLE_FILE: "/etc/ssl/private/terraform-enterprise/bundle.pem"
      TFE_IACT_SUBNETS: "<IACT subnet, eg. 10.0.0.0/8,192.168.0.0/24>"
    cap_add:
      - IPC_LOCK
    read_only: true
    tmpfs:
      - /tmp:mode=01777
      - /run
      - /var/log/terraform-enterprise
    ports:
      - "80:80"
      - "443:443"
    volumes:
      - type: bind
        source: /var/run/docker.sock
        target: /run/docker.sock
      - type: bind
        source: ./certs
        target: /etc/ssl/private/terraform-enterprise
      - type: bind
        source: <mounted_disk_path_on_host>
        target: /var/lib/terraform-enterprise
      - type: volume
        source: terraform-enterprise-cache
        target: /var/cache/tfe-task-worker/terraform
volumes:
  terraform-enterprise-cache:
```

### External services

An external services deployment requires the following:
- [PostgreSQL](/terraform/enterprise/flexible-deployments/install/requirements/data-storage/postgres-requirements) database server
- Blob Storage (AWS S3, Azure Cloud Storage, Google Cloud Storage, or any S3-compatible storage service)

This Compose YAML deploys Terraform Enterprise in external services mode,
expecting that you will bring an external PostgreSQL server and an external
S3-compatible object storage server.

```yaml
---
name: terraform-enterprise
services:
  tfe:
    image: images.releases.hashicorp.com/hashicorp/terraform-enterprise:<vYYYYMM-#>
    environment:
      TFE_LICENSE: "<Hashicorp license>"
      TFE_HOSTNAME: "<TFE hostname (DNS) e.g. terraform.example.com>"
      TFE_ENCRYPTION_PASSWORD: "<Encryption password>"
      TFE_OPERATIONAL_MODE: "external"
      TFE_DISK_CACHE_VOLUME_NAME: "${COMPOSE_PROJECT_NAME}_terraform-enterprise-cache"
      TFE_TLS_CERT_FILE: "/etc/ssl/private/terraform-enterprise/cert.pem"
      TFE_TLS_KEY_FILE: "/etc/ssl/private/terraform-enterprise/key.pem"
      TFE_TLS_CA_BUNDLE_FILE: "/etc/ssl/private/terraform-enterprise/bundle.pem"
      TFE_IACT_SUBNETS: "<IACT subnet, eg. 10.0.0.0/8,192.168.0.0/24>"

      # Database settings. See the configuration reference for more settings.
      TFE_DATABASE_USER: "<Database user e.g. postgres>"
      TFE_DATABASE_PASSWORD: "<Database password e.g. postgres>"
      TFE_DATABASE_HOST: "<Database hostname and port e.g. postgres:5432>"
      TFE_DATABASE_NAME: "<Database name e.g. hashicorp>"
      TFE_DATABASE_PARAMETERS: "<Database parameters e.g. sslmode=disable>"

      # Object storage settings. See the configuration reference for more settings.
      TFE_OBJECT_STORAGE_TYPE: "s3"
      TFE_OBJECT_STORAGE_S3_ACCESS_KEY_ID: "<AWS Access Key ID>"
      TFE_OBJECT_STORAGE_S3_SECRET_ACCESS_KEY: "<AWS Secret Access Key>"
      TFE_OBJECT_STORAGE_S3_REGION: "<AWS Region e.g.us-east-1>"
      TFE_OBJECT_STORAGE_S3_BUCKET: "<Bucket name>"
    cap_add:
      - IPC_LOCK
    read_only: true
    tmpfs:
      - /tmp:mode=01777
      - /run
      - /var/log/terraform-enterprise
    ports:
      - "80:80"
      - "443:443"
    volumes:
      - type: bind
        source: /var/run/docker.sock
        target: /run/docker.sock
      - type: bind
        source: ./certs
        target: /etc/ssl/private/terraform-enterprise
      - type: volume
        source: terraform-enterprise-cache
        target: /var/cache/tfe-task-worker/terraform
volumes:
  terraform-enterprise-cache:
```

### Active/Active

An active/active deployment requires the following:
- [PostgreSQL](/terraform/enterprise/flexible-deployments/install/requirements/data-storage/postgres-requirements) database server
- Blob Storage (AWS S3, Azure Cloud Storage, Google Cloud Storage, or any S3-compatible storage service)
- Redis version 6 or 7 (Redis Cluster is not currently supported.)

This Compose YAML deploys Terraform Enterprise in active/active mode, expecting
that you will bring an external PostgreSQL server, an external S3-compatible
object storage server, and an external Redis-compatible caching server.

```yaml
---
name: terraform-enterprise
services:
  tfe:
    image: images.releases.hashicorp.com/hashicorp/terraform-enterprise:<vYYYYMM-#>
    environment:
      TFE_LICENSE: "<Hashicorp license>"
      TFE_HOSTNAME: "<TFE hostname (DNS) e.g. terraform.example.com>"
      TFE_ENCRYPTION_PASSWORD: "<Encryption password>"
      TFE_OPERATIONAL_MODE: "active-active"
      TFE_DISK_CACHE_VOLUME_NAME: "${COMPOSE_PROJECT_NAME}_terraform-enterprise-cache"
      TFE_TLS_CERT_FILE: "/etc/ssl/private/terraform-enterprise/cert.pem"
      TFE_TLS_KEY_FILE: "/etc/ssl/private/terraform-enterprise/key.pem"
      TFE_TLS_CA_BUNDLE_FILE: "/etc/ssl/private/terraform-enterprise/bundle.pem"
      TFE_IACT_SUBNETS: "<IACT subnet, eg. 10.0.0.0/8,192.168.0.0/24>"

      # Database settings. See the configuration reference for more settings.
      TFE_DATABASE_USER: "<Database user e.g. postgres>"
      TFE_DATABASE_PASSWORD: "<Database password e.g. postgres>"
      TFE_DATABASE_HOST: "<Database hostname and port e.g. postgres:5432>"
      TFE_DATABASE_NAME: "<Database name e.g. hashicorp>"
      TFE_DATABASE_PARAMETERS: "<Database parameters e.g. sslmode=disable>"

      # Object storage settings. See the configuration reference for more settings.
      TFE_OBJECT_STORAGE_TYPE: "s3"
      TFE_OBJECT_STORAGE_S3_ACCESS_KEY_ID: "<AWS Access Key ID>"
      TFE_OBJECT_STORAGE_S3_SECRET_ACCESS_KEY: "<AWS Secret Access Key>"
      TFE_OBJECT_STORAGE_S3_REGION: "<AWS Region e.g.us-east-1>"
      TFE_OBJECT_STORAGE_S3_BUCKET: "<Bucket name>"

      # Redis settings. See the configuration reference for more settings.
      TFE_REDIS_HOST: "<Redis hostname and port e.g. redis:6379>"
      TFE_REDIS_USER: "<Redis username>"
      TFE_REDIS_PASSWORD: "<Redis password>"
      TFE_REDIS_USE_TLS: "<To use tls? e.g. false>"
      TFE_REDIS_USE_AUTH: "<To use customized credential to authenticate? e.g. false>"

      # Vault cluster settings.
      # If you are using the default internal vault, this should be the private routable IP address of the node itself.
      TFE_VAULT_CLUSTER_ADDRESS: "https://<private_ip_of_the_node>:8201"
    cap_add:
      - IPC_LOCK
    read_only: true
    tmpfs:
      - /tmp:mode=01777
      - /run
      - /var/log/terraform-enterprise
    ports:
      - "80:80"
      - "443:443"
      - "8201:8201"
    volumes:
      - type: bind
        source: /var/run/docker.sock
        target: /run/docker.sock
      - type: bind
        source: ./certs
        target: /etc/ssl/private/terraform-enterprise
      - type: volume
        source: terraform-enterprise-cache
        target: /var/cache/tfe-task-worker/terraform
volumes:
  terraform-enterprise-cache:
```

## Service Management

This document provides example configuration for using Docker Compose as the
management tool to run Terraform Enterprise as a single Docker container.
Managing the lifecycle of Docker Compose is outside the scope of this document.
For convenience, we have included examples of possible options for managing
Docker Compose on your Linux host.

### Systemd

You can use `systemd` to automatically run `docker compose` on system start using
the example below. Save the below file as `/etc/systemd/system/terraform-enterprise.service`:

```ini
[Unit]
Description=Terraform Enterprise Service
Requires=docker.service
After=docker.service network.target

[Service]
Type=oneshot
RemainAfterExit=yes
WorkingDirectory=/etc/terraform-enterprise
ExecStart=/usr/local/bin/docker compose up -d
ExecStop=/usr/local/bin/docker compose down
TimeoutStartSec=0

[Install]
WantedBy=multi-user.target
```

Enable this service with the following command.

```shell-session
$ systemctl enable --now terraform-enterprise
```
