content/nomad/v1.11.x/content/docs/other-specifications/volume/host.mdx, before:

---
layout: docs
page_title: Nomad dynamic host volume specification
description: |-
  Learn about the Nomad dynamic host volume specification. Define capacity,
  capability, constraint, node, node pool, and parameters passed directly
  to the plugin to configure the volume. Learn how volume creation and
  registration are different. Additionally, learn how to place a volume on
  specific nodes, update a volume, and expand a volume's capacity.
---

# Nomad dynamic host volume specification

This page provides reference information for the Nomad dynamic host volume
specification. Create and register dynamic host volumes using the [`volume
create`][] and [`volume register`][] commands and the [`PUT
/v1/volume/host/create`][api_volume_create] and [`PUT
/v1/volume/host/register`][api_volume_register] API endpoints.  Define capacity,
capability, constraint, node, node pool, and parameters passed directly to the
plugin to configure the volume.  Learn how volume creation and registration are
different. Additionally, learn how to place a volume on specific nodes, update a
volume, and expand a volume's capacity.

Some attributes are only be supported by specific operation, while others may
have a different meaning for each action, so read the documentation for each
attribute carefully. The section [Differences Between Create and
Register](#differences-between-create-and-register) provides a summary of the
differences.

The file may be provided as either HCL or JSON to the commands and as JSON to
the API.

## Parameters

- `capacity` `(string: <optional>)` - The size of a volume in bytes. Either the
  physical size of a disk or a quota, depending on the plugin. This field must
  be between the `capacity_min` and `capacity_max` values unless they are
  omitted. Accepts human-friendly suffixes such as `"100GiB"`. Only supported
  for volume registration.

- `capacity_min` `(string: <optional>)` - Option for requesting a minimum
  capacity, in bytes. The capacity of a volume may be the physical size of a
  disk, or a quota, depending on the plugin. The specific size of the resulting
  volume is somewhere between `capacity_min` and `capacity_max`; the exact
  behavior is up to the plugin. If you want to specify an exact size, set
  `capacity_min` and `capacity_max` to the same value. Accepts human-friendly
  suffixes such as `"100GiB"`. Plugins that cannot restrict the size of volumes,
  such as the built-in [`mkdir`][mkdir_plugin] plugin, may ignore this field.

- `capacity_max` `(string: <optional>)` - Option for requesting a maximum
  capacity, in bytes. The capacity of a volume may be the physical size of a
  disk, or a quota, depending on the plugin. The specific size of the resulting
  volume is somewhere between `capacity_min` and `capacity_max`; the exact
  behavior is up to the plugin. If you want to specify an exact size, set
  `capacity_min` and `capacity_max` to the same value. Accepts human-friendly
  suffixes such as `"100GiB"`. Plugins that cannot restrict the size of volumes,
  such as the built-in [`mkdir`][mkdir_plugin] plugin, may ignore this field.

- `capability` <code>([Capability][capability]: &lt;required&gt;)</code> -
  Option for validating the capability of a volume.

- `constraint` <code>([Constraint][constraint]: &lt;optional&gt;)</code> - A
  restriction on the eligible nodes where a volume can be created. Refer to the
  [volume placement](#volume-placement) section for details. You can provide
  multiple `constraint` blocks to add more constraints. Optional for volume
  creation and ignored for volume registration.

- `id` `(string: <optional>)` - The ID of a previously created volume to update
  via `volume create` or `volume register`. You should never set this field when
  initially creating or registering a volume, and you should only use the values
  returned from the Nomad API for the ID.

- `host_path` `(string)` - The path on disk where the volume exists. You should
  set this only for volume registration. It is ignored for volume creation.

- `name` `(string: <required>)` - The name of the volume, which is used as the
  [`volume.source`][volume_source] field in job specifications that claim this
  volume. Host volume names must be unique per node. Names are visible to any
  user with `node:read` ACL, even across namespaces, so they should not be
  treated as sensitive values.

- `namespace` `(string: <optional>)` - The namespace of the volume. This field
  overrides the namespace provided by the `-namespace` flag or `NOMAD_NAMESPACE`
  environment variable. Defaults to `"default"` if unset.

- `node_id` `(string)` - A specific node where you would like the volume to be
  created. Refer to the [volume placement](#volume-placement) section for
  details. Optional for volume creation but required for volume registration.

- `node_pool` `(string: <optional>)` - A specific node pool where you would like
  the volume to be created. Refer to the [volume placement](#volume-placement)
  section for details. Optional for volume creation or volume registration. If
  you also provide `node_id`, the node must be in the provided `node_pool`.

- `parameters` <code>(map<string|string>:nil)</code> - An optional key-value map
  of strings passed directly to the plugin to configure the volume. The details
  of these parameters are specific to the plugin.

- `plugin_id` `(string)` - The ID of the [dynamic host volume
  plugin][dhv_plugin] that manages this volume. Required for volume
  creation. Nomad has one built-in plugin called [`mkdir`][mkdir_plugin].

- `type` `(string: <required>)` - The type of volume. Must be `"host"` for
  dynamic host volumes.

## mkdir plugin

Nomad has one built-in plugin called `mkdir`, which creates a directory on the
host in the Nomad agent's [host_volumes_dir][]. The directory name is the
volume's ID.

`mkdir` ignores `capacity_min` and `capacity_max` volume configuration,
since it has no way of enforcing them.

### mkdir parameters

- `mode` `(string: <optional>)` - [Numeric
notation](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/File-system_permissions#Numeric_notation)
to apply to the created directory. Defaults to "0700", so only the owner can
access it. Must be a string, or you may get unexpected results.
- `uid` `(int: <optional>)` - User ID to own the directory. Defaults to the
user running the Nomad client agent, which is commonly `0` (root).
- `gid` `(int: <optional>)` - Group ID to own the directory. Defaults to the
user running the Nomad client agent, which is commonly `0` (root).

The user and group IDs must be present on any node that may receive the volume.

### mkdir example

<CodeBlockConfig filename="mkdir.volume.hcl">

```hcl
type      = "host"
name      = "cool-host-vol"
plugin_id = "mkdir"
parameters = {
  mode = "0755"
  uid  = 1000
  gid  = 1000
}
```

</CodeBlockConfig>

## Differences between create and register

Several fields are set automatically by Nomad or the plugin when `volume create`
or `volume register` commands, or the equivalent APIs, are successful and you
should not set their values if they are not supported by the operation.

In **volume creation** you must set the [`plugin_id`](#plugin_id) field. The
[`capacity`](#capacity) and [`host_path`](#host_path) fields are ignored.

In **volume registration** you must set the [`node_id`](#node_id) and
[`host_path`](#host_path) fields. The [`plugin_id`](#plugin_id) and
[`constraint`](#constraint) fields are ignored. The [`node_pool`](#node_pool),
[`capacity_max`](#capacity_max), and [`capacity_min`](#capacity_min) fields are
ignored but must be consistent if set; the `node_pool` must match the node set
by `node_id`, and the minimum capacity must be less than the `capacity_max` and
`capacity`.

## Volume placement

The `volume create` command creates the volume on a single node. If `node_id` is
set, the volume is created on that node. The `node_pool` must be unset or match
that node. Otherwise, the Nomad server iterates over the available nodes and
place the volume on the first available node based on the following factors:

* The node cannot already have a host volume with the same name.
* If `node_pool` is set, the selected node must be in that node pool.
* The node must meet any and all constraints defined by the `constraint` fields.

## Update a volume definition

The `volume create` and `volume register` commands allow updating a volume
definition. However, after volume registration, you are only allowed to update
the following fields:

- `plugin_id`
- `capacity_min` and `capacity_max`. You may increase
  the volume size if the plugin supports it. Expansion may or may not be
  possible while the volume is in use, again depending on the plugin.  Reducing
  volume capacity is not allowed. Only available for volume creation.
- `capacity`, but only updated for volume registration.
- `constraint` fields. Ignored after the volume is created.

Additionally, you may add or remove `capability` blocks, but only if the
capability is not currently in use by a mounted volume.

You cannot update the `name`, `type`, and `node_id` fields. You may only change
the `node_pool` field from empty to the node pool that matches the `node_id`
field.

## Volume expansion

Dynamic host volumes may be expanded if the plugin allows. Reducing the size of
a volume is not permitted.

To trigger a volume expansion, increase [`capacity_min`](#capacity_min) above
the current real capacity of the volume (as shown with the [`volume status`][]
command), and re-issue [`volume create`][].

Nomad reconciles the requested capacity by issuing a create request to the
plugin.

## Examples

### Volume creation

This is an example file used for the [`volume create`][] command.

```hcl
name            = "database"
type            = "host"
plugin_id       = "lvm-thin-provisioner"
node_pool       = "prod"

capacity_min = "80G"
capacity_max = "100G"

capability {
  access_mode     = "single-node-reader-only"
  attachment_mode = "file-system"
}

capability {
  access_mode     = "single-node-writer"
  attachment_mode = "file-system"
}

parameters {
  skuname = "Premium_LRS"
}
```

### Volume registration

This is an example file used for the [`volume register`][] command.

```hcl
name      = "database"
type      = "host"
node_id   = "a7b4c0ca-cc78-11ef-8b5a-cb6ea67b844c"
host_path = "/var/srv/example"
capacity  = "80G"

capability {
  access_mode     = "single-node-reader-only"
  attachment_mode = "file-system"
}

capability {
  access_mode     = "single-node-writer"
  attachment_mode = "file-system"
}

parameters {
  skuname = "Premium_LRS"
}
```

### Volume expansion

This example shows how to expand a volume after it has been created or
registered.

1. Create a volume configuration file called `volume.hcl` that defines name,
   type, plugin ID, and capacity.

  ```hcl
   name      = "database"
   type      = "host"
   plugin_id = "external-plugin"

   capacity_min = "30GiB"
   capacity_max = "50GiB"
   ```

1. Create the volume using the [`volume create`] command.

   ```shell-session
   $ nomad volume create ./volume.hcl
   ==> Created host volume database with ID 0c903229-311d-ba8a-f77e-45c31b83fab3
   ✓ Host volume "0c903229" ready

    2025-01-06T16:56:09-05:00
    ID        = 0c903229-311d-ba8a-f77e-45c31b83fab3
    Name      = database
    Namespace = default
    Plugin ID = external-plugin
    Node ID   = cfe033a7-50de-2c46-cd18-12be7429eeb3
    Node Pool = default
    Capacity  = 50 GiB
    State     = ready
    Host Path = /run/nomad/dev/alloc_mounts/0c903229-311d-ba8a-f77e-45c31b83fab3
   ```

1. Review the volume's current capacity using the [`volume status`] command.

   ```shell-session
   $ nomad volume status -type=host 0c903229 | grep Capacity
   Capacity             = 50 GiB
   ```

1. Increase volume capacity in the `volume.hcl` file.

   Update the `capacity_min` and `capacity_max` fields.

   ```hcl
   id        = "0c903229-311d-ba8a-f77e-45c31b83fab3"
   name      = "database"
   type      = "host"
   plugin_id = "external-plugin"

   capacity_min = "100GiB" # double
   capacity_max = "100GiB" # increased to match
   ```

1. Expand the volume using the [`volume create`] command.

   The `volume create` command can trigger an expansion to occur, after the
   volume has already been created or registered.

   ```shell-session
   $ nomad volume create volume.hcl
   Created host volume database with ID 0c903229-311d-ba8a-f77e-45c31b83fab3
   ```

1. Review the new capacity by running the [`volume status`] command.

   ```shell-session
   $ nomad volume status -type=host 0c903229 | grep Capacity
   Capacity             = 100 GiB
   ```

[api_volume_create]: /nomad/api-docs/volumes#create-dynamic-host-volume
[api_volume_register]: /nomad/api-docs/volumes#register-dynamic-host-volume
[volume_source]: /nomad/docs/job-specification/volume#source
[capability]: /nomad/docs/other-specifications/volume/capability
[constraint]: /nomad/docs/job-specification/constraint
[`volume create`]: /nomad/commands/volume/create
[`volume register`]: /nomad/commands/volume/register
[`volume status`]: /nomad/commands/volume/status
[dhv_plugin]: /nomad/docs/architecture/storage/host-volumes
[mkdir_plugin]: #mkdir-plugin
[host_volumes_dir]: /nomad/docs/configuration/client#host_volumes_dir

Commit message:

nomad add mkdir plugin windows notes and qemu upgrade note

content/nomad/v1.11.x/content/docs/other-specifications/volume/host.mdx, after:

---
layout: docs
page_title: Nomad dynamic host volume specification
description: |-
  Learn about the Nomad dynamic host volume specification. Define capacity,
  capability, constraint, node, node pool, and parameters passed directly
  to the plugin to configure the volume. Learn how volume creation and
  registration are different. Additionally, learn how to place a volume on
  specific nodes, update a volume, and expand a volume's capacity.
---

# Nomad dynamic host volume specification

This page provides reference information for the Nomad dynamic host volume
specification. Create and register dynamic host volumes using the [`volume
create`][] and [`volume register`][] commands and the [`PUT
/v1/volume/host/create`][api_volume_create] and [`PUT
/v1/volume/host/register`][api_volume_register] API endpoints.  Define capacity,
capability, constraint, node, node pool, and parameters passed directly to the
plugin to configure the volume.  Learn how volume creation and registration are
different. Additionally, learn how to place a volume on specific nodes, update a
volume, and expand a volume's capacity.

Some attributes are only be supported by specific operation, while others may
have a different meaning for each action, so read the documentation for each
attribute carefully. The section [Differences Between Create and
Register](#differences-between-create-and-register) provides a summary of the
differences.

The file may be provided as either HCL or JSON to the commands and as JSON to
the API.

## Parameters

- `capacity` `(string: <optional>)` - The size of a volume in bytes. Either the
  physical size of a disk or a quota, depending on the plugin. This field must
  be between the `capacity_min` and `capacity_max` values unless they are
  omitted. Accepts human-friendly suffixes such as `"100GiB"`. Only supported
  for volume registration.

- `capacity_min` `(string: <optional>)` - Option for requesting a minimum
  capacity, in bytes. The capacity of a volume may be the physical size of a
  disk, or a quota, depending on the plugin. The specific size of the resulting
  volume is somewhere between `capacity_min` and `capacity_max`; the exact
  behavior is up to the plugin. If you want to specify an exact size, set
  `capacity_min` and `capacity_max` to the same value. Accepts human-friendly
  suffixes such as `"100GiB"`. Plugins that cannot restrict the size of volumes,
  such as the built-in [`mkdir`][mkdir_plugin] plugin, may ignore this field.

- `capacity_max` `(string: <optional>)` - Option for requesting a maximum
  capacity, in bytes. The capacity of a volume may be the physical size of a
  disk, or a quota, depending on the plugin. The specific size of the resulting
  volume is somewhere between `capacity_min` and `capacity_max`; the exact
  behavior is up to the plugin. If you want to specify an exact size, set
  `capacity_min` and `capacity_max` to the same value. Accepts human-friendly
  suffixes such as `"100GiB"`. Plugins that cannot restrict the size of volumes,
  such as the built-in [`mkdir`][mkdir_plugin] plugin, may ignore this field.

- `capability` <code>([Capability][capability]: &lt;required&gt;)</code> -
  Option for validating the capability of a volume.

- `constraint` <code>([Constraint][constraint]: &lt;optional&gt;)</code> - A
  restriction on the eligible nodes where a volume can be created. Refer to the
  [volume placement](#volume-placement) section for details. You can provide
  multiple `constraint` blocks to add more constraints. Optional for volume
  creation and ignored for volume registration.

- `id` `(string: <optional>)` - The ID of a previously created volume to update
  via `volume create` or `volume register`. You should never set this field when
  initially creating or registering a volume, and you should only use the values
  returned from the Nomad API for the ID.

- `host_path` `(string)` - The path on disk where the volume exists. You should
  set this only for volume registration. It is ignored for volume creation.

- `name` `(string: <required>)` - The name of the volume, which is used as the
  [`volume.source`][volume_source] field in job specifications that claim this
  volume. Host volume names must be unique per node. Names are visible to any
  user with `node:read` ACL, even across namespaces, so they should not be
  treated as sensitive values.

- `namespace` `(string: <optional>)` - The namespace of the volume. This field
  overrides the namespace provided by the `-namespace` flag or `NOMAD_NAMESPACE`
  environment variable. Defaults to `"default"` if unset.

- `node_id` `(string)` - A specific node where you would like the volume to be
  created. Refer to the [volume placement](#volume-placement) section for
  details. Optional for volume creation but required for volume registration.

- `node_pool` `(string: <optional>)` - A specific node pool where you would like
  the volume to be created. Refer to the [volume placement](#volume-placement)
  section for details. Optional for volume creation or volume registration. If
  you also provide `node_id`, the node must be in the provided `node_pool`.

- `parameters` <code>(map<string|string>:nil)</code> - An optional key-value map
  of strings passed directly to the plugin to configure the volume. The details
  of these parameters are specific to the plugin.

- `plugin_id` `(string)` - The ID of the [dynamic host volume
  plugin][dhv_plugin] that manages this volume. Required for volume
  creation. Nomad has one built-in plugin called [`mkdir`][mkdir_plugin].

- `type` `(string: <required>)` - The type of volume. Must be `"host"` for
  dynamic host volumes.

## mkdir plugin

Nomad has one built-in plugin called `mkdir`, which creates a directory on the
host in the Nomad agent's [host_volumes_dir][]. The directory name is the
volume's ID.

`mkdir` ignores `capacity_min` and `capacity_max` volume configuration,
since it has no way of enforcing them.

### mkdir parameters

- `mode` `(string: <optional>)` - [Numeric
notation](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/File-system_permissions#Numeric_notation)
to apply to the created directory. Defaults to "0700", so only the owner can
access it. Must be a string, or you may get unexpected results.
- `uid` `(int: <optional>)` - User ID to own the directory. Defaults to the
user running the Nomad client agent, which is commonly `0` (root).
- `gid` `(int: <optional>)` - Group ID to own the directory. Defaults to the
user running the Nomad client agent, which is commonly `0` (root).

The user and group IDs must be present on any node that may receive the volume.

On Windows, the uid and gid values are ignored. In addition, only the 0o200 bit
(owner writable) of mode is used; it controls whether the file's read-only attribute
is set or cleared.

### mkdir example

<CodeBlockConfig filename="mkdir.volume.hcl">

```hcl
type      = "host"
name      = "cool-host-vol"
plugin_id = "mkdir"
parameters = {
  mode = "0755"
  uid  = 1000
  gid  = 1000
}
```

</CodeBlockConfig>

## Differences between create and register

Several fields are set automatically by Nomad or the plugin when `volume create`
or `volume register` commands, or the equivalent APIs, are successful and you
should not set their values if they are not supported by the operation.

In **volume creation** you must set the [`plugin_id`](#plugin_id) field. The
[`capacity`](#capacity) and [`host_path`](#host_path) fields are ignored.

In **volume registration** you must set the [`node_id`](#node_id) and
[`host_path`](#host_path) fields. The [`plugin_id`](#plugin_id) and
[`constraint`](#constraint) fields are ignored. The [`node_pool`](#node_pool),
[`capacity_max`](#capacity_max), and [`capacity_min`](#capacity_min) fields are
ignored but must be consistent if set; the `node_pool` must match the node set
by `node_id`, and the minimum capacity must be less than the `capacity_max` and
`capacity`.

## Volume placement

The `volume create` command creates the volume on a single node. If `node_id` is
set, the volume is created on that node. The `node_pool` must be unset or match
that node. Otherwise, the Nomad server iterates over the available nodes and
place the volume on the first available node based on the following factors:

* The node cannot already have a host volume with the same name.
* If `node_pool` is set, the selected node must be in that node pool.
* The node must meet any and all constraints defined by the `constraint` fields.

## Update a volume definition

The `volume create` and `volume register` commands allow updating a volume
definition. However, after volume registration, you are only allowed to update
the following fields:

- `plugin_id`
- `capacity_min` and `capacity_max`. You may increase
  the volume size if the plugin supports it. Expansion may or may not be
  possible while the volume is in use, again depending on the plugin.  Reducing
  volume capacity is not allowed. Only available for volume creation.
- `capacity`, but only updated for volume registration.
- `constraint` fields. Ignored after the volume is created.

Additionally, you may add or remove `capability` blocks, but only if the
capability is not currently in use by a mounted volume.

You cannot update the `name`, `type`, and `node_id` fields. You may only change
the `node_pool` field from empty to the node pool that matches the `node_id`
field.

## Volume expansion

Dynamic host volumes may be expanded if the plugin allows. Reducing the size of
a volume is not permitted.

To trigger a volume expansion, increase [`capacity_min`](#capacity_min) above
the current real capacity of the volume (as shown with the [`volume status`][]
command), and re-issue [`volume create`][].

Nomad reconciles the requested capacity by issuing a create request to the
plugin.

## Examples

### Volume creation

This is an example file used for the [`volume create`][] command.

```hcl
name            = "database"
type            = "host"
plugin_id       = "lvm-thin-provisioner"
node_pool       = "prod"

capacity_min = "80G"
capacity_max = "100G"

capability {
  access_mode     = "single-node-reader-only"
  attachment_mode = "file-system"
}

capability {
  access_mode     = "single-node-writer"
  attachment_mode = "file-system"
}

parameters {
  skuname = "Premium_LRS"
}
```

### Volume registration

This is an example file used for the [`volume register`][] command.

```hcl
name      = "database"
type      = "host"
node_id   = "a7b4c0ca-cc78-11ef-8b5a-cb6ea67b844c"
host_path = "/var/srv/example"
capacity  = "80G"

capability {
  access_mode     = "single-node-reader-only"
  attachment_mode = "file-system"
}

capability {
  access_mode     = "single-node-writer"
  attachment_mode = "file-system"
}

parameters {
  skuname = "Premium_LRS"
}
```

### Volume expansion

This example shows how to expand a volume after it has been created or
registered.

1. Create a volume configuration file called `volume.hcl` that defines name,
   type, plugin ID, and capacity.

  ```hcl
   name      = "database"
   type      = "host"
   plugin_id = "external-plugin"

   capacity_min = "30GiB"
   capacity_max = "50GiB"
   ```

1. Create the volume using the [`volume create`] command.

   ```shell-session
   $ nomad volume create ./volume.hcl
   ==> Created host volume database with ID 0c903229-311d-ba8a-f77e-45c31b83fab3
   ✓ Host volume "0c903229" ready

    2025-01-06T16:56:09-05:00
    ID        = 0c903229-311d-ba8a-f77e-45c31b83fab3
    Name      = database
    Namespace = default
    Plugin ID = external-plugin
    Node ID   = cfe033a7-50de-2c46-cd18-12be7429eeb3
    Node Pool = default
    Capacity  = 50 GiB
    State     = ready
    Host Path = /run/nomad/dev/alloc_mounts/0c903229-311d-ba8a-f77e-45c31b83fab3
   ```

1. Review the volume's current capacity using the [`volume status`] command.

   ```shell-session
   $ nomad volume status -type=host 0c903229 | grep Capacity
   Capacity             = 50 GiB
   ```

1. Increase volume capacity in the `volume.hcl` file.

   Update the `capacity_min` and `capacity_max` fields.

   ```hcl
   id        = "0c903229-311d-ba8a-f77e-45c31b83fab3"
   name      = "database"
   type      = "host"
   plugin_id = "external-plugin"

   capacity_min = "100GiB" # double
   capacity_max = "100GiB" # increased to match
   ```

1. Expand the volume using the [`volume create`] command.

   The `volume create` command can trigger an expansion to occur, after the
   volume has already been created or registered.

   ```shell-session
   $ nomad volume create volume.hcl
   Created host volume database with ID 0c903229-311d-ba8a-f77e-45c31b83fab3
   ```

1. Review the new capacity by running the [`volume status`] command.

   ```shell-session
   $ nomad volume status -type=host 0c903229 | grep Capacity
   Capacity             = 100 GiB
   ```

[api_volume_create]: /nomad/api-docs/volumes#create-dynamic-host-volume
[api_volume_register]: /nomad/api-docs/volumes#register-dynamic-host-volume
[volume_source]: /nomad/docs/job-specification/volume#source
[capability]: /nomad/docs/other-specifications/volume/capability
[constraint]: /nomad/docs/job-specification/constraint
[`volume create`]: /nomad/commands/volume/create
[`volume register`]: /nomad/commands/volume/register
[`volume status`]: /nomad/commands/volume/status
[dhv_plugin]: /nomad/docs/architecture/storage/host-volumes
[mkdir_plugin]: #mkdir-plugin
[host_volumes_dir]: /nomad/docs/configuration/client#host_volumes_dir
