content/vault/v1.21.x/content/docs/secrets/databases/mssql.mdx, before:

---
layout: docs
page_title: MSSQL database secrets engine
description: >-
  MSSQL is one of the supported plugins for the database secrets engine. This
  plugin generates database credentials dynamically based on configured roles
  for the MSSQL database.
---

# MSSQL database secrets engine

MSSQL is one of the supported plugins for the database secrets engine. This
plugin generates database credentials dynamically based on configured roles for
the MSSQL database.

See the [database secrets engine](/vault/docs/secrets/databases) docs for
more information about setting up the database secrets engine.

The following privileges are needed by the plugin for minimum functionality. Additional privileges may be needed 
depending on the SQL configured on the database roles. 

```sql
-- Create Login
CREATE LOGIN vault_login WITH PASSWORD = '<password>';

-- Create User
CREATE user vault_user for login vault_login;

-- Grant Permissions
GRANT ALTER ANY LOGIN TO "vault_user";
GRANT ALTER ANY USER TO "vault_user";
GRANT ALTER ANY CONNECTION TO "vault_login";
GRANT CONTROL ON SCHEMA::<schema_name> TO "vault_user";
EXEC sp_addrolemember "db_accessadmin", "vault_user";
```

## Capabilities

| Plugin Name             | Root Credential Rotation | Dynamic Roles | Static Roles | Username Customization |
| ----------------------- | ------------------------ | ------------- | ------------ | ---------------------- |
| `mssql-database-plugin` | Yes                      | Yes           | Yes          | Yes (1.7+)             |

## Setup

1.  Enable the database secrets engine if it is not already enabled:

    ```text
    $ vault secrets enable database
    Success! Enabled the database secrets engine at: database/
    ```

    By default, the secrets engine will enable at the name of the engine. To
    enable the secrets engine at a different path, use the `-path` argument.

1.  Configure Vault with the proper plugin and connection information:

    ```text
    $ vault write database/config/my-mssql-database \
        plugin_name=mssql-database-plugin \
        connection_url='sqlserver://{{username}}:{{password}}@localhost:1433' \
        allowed_roles="my-role" \
        username="vaultuser" \
        password="yourStrong(!)Password"
    ```

    ~> Note: The example above demonstrates a connection with SQL server user named `vaultuser`, although the user `vaultuser` might be Windows Authentication user part of Active Directory domain, for example: `DOMAIN\vaultuser`.

    In this case, we've configured Vault with the user "vaultuser" and password
    "yourStrong(!)Password", connecting to an instance at "localhost" on port 1433. It is
    not necessary that Vault has the vaultuser login, but the user must have privileges
    to create logins and manage processes. The fixed server roles
    `securityadmin` and `processadmin` are examples of built-in roles that grant
    these permissions. The user also must have privileges to create database
    users and grant permissions in the databases that Vault manages. The fixed
    database roles `db_accessadmin` and `db_securityadmin` are examples or
    built-in roles that grant these permissions.

1.  Configure a role that maps a name in Vault to an SQL statement to execute to
    create the database credential:

    ```text
    $ vault write database/roles/my-role \
        db_name=my-mssql-database \
        creation_statements="CREATE LOGIN [{{name}}] WITH PASSWORD = '{{password}}';\
            CREATE USER [{{name}}] FOR LOGIN [{{name}}];\
            GRANT SELECT ON SCHEMA::dbo TO [{{name}}];" \
        default_ttl="1h" \
        max_ttl="24h"
    Success! Data written to: database/roles/my-role
    ```

~> **Be aware!** If no `revocation_statement` is supplied,
vault will execute the default revocation procedure.
In larger databases, this might cause connection timeouts.
Please specify a revocation statement in such a scenario.

## Usage

After the secrets engine is configured and a user/machine has a Vault token with
the proper permission, it can generate credentials.

1.  Generate a new credential by reading from the `/creds` endpoint with the name
    of the role:

    ```text
    $ vault read database/creds/my-role
    Key                Value
    ---                -----
    lease_id           database/creds/my-role/2f6a614c-4aa2-7b19-24b9-ad944a8d4de6
    lease_duration     1h
    lease_renewable    true
    password           wJKpk9kg-T1Ma7qQfS8y
    username           v-vaultuser-my-role-r7kCtKGGr3eYQP1OGR6G-1602542258
    ```

## Example for Azure SQL database

Here is a complete example using Azure SQL Database. Note that databases in
Azure SQL Database are [contained databases](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/sql/relational-databases/databases/contained-databases)
and that we do not create a login for the user; instead, we associate the
password directly with the user itself. Also note that you will need a separate
connection and role for each Azure SQL database for which you want to generate
dynamic credentials. You can use a single database backend mount for all these
databases or use a separate mount for each of them. In this example, we use a
custom path for the database backend.

<Note>
  Azure SQL databases may use different authentication mechanism that are configured on the SQL server. Vault only supports SQL authentication. Azure AD authentication is not supported.
</Note>

First, we mount a database backend at the azuresql path with `vault secrets
enable -path=azuresql database`. Then we configure a connection called
"testvault" to connect to a database called "test-vault", using "azuresql" at
the beginning of our path and set the `contained_db` field:

    ~> Note: If you are using a windows vault client with cmd.exe, change the single quotes to double quotes in the connection string.  Windows cmd.exe does not interpret single quotes as a continous string
    
```shell-session
$ vault write azuresql/config/testvault \
    plugin_name=mssql-database-plugin \
    connection_url='server=hashisqlserver.database.windows.net;port=1433;user id=admin;password=pAssw0rd;database=test-vault;app name=vault;' \
    contained_db=true \
    allowed_roles="test"
```

Now we add a role called "test" for use with the "testvault" connection:

```shell-session
$ vault write azuresql/roles/test \
    db_name=testvault \
    creation_statements="CREATE USER [{{name}}] WITH PASSWORD = '{{password}}';" \
    revocation_statements="DROP USER IF EXISTS [{{name}}]" \
    default_ttl="1h" \
    max_ttl="24h"
```

We can now use this role to dynamically generate credentials for the Azure SQL database, test-vault:

```shell-session
$ vault read azuresql/creds/test
Key            	Value
---            	-----
lease_id       	azuresql/creds/test/2e5b1e0b-a081-c7e1-5622-39f58e79a719
lease_duration 	1h0m0s
lease_renewable	true
password       	cZ-BJy-SqO5tKwazAuUP
username       	v-token-test-tr2t4x9pxvq1z8878s9s-1513446795
```

When we no longer need the backend, we can unmount it with `vault unmount azuresql`. Now, you can use the MSSQL Database Plugin with your Azure SQL databases.

## Amazon RDS

The MSSQL plugin supports databases running on [Amazon RDS](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/AmazonRDS/latest/UserGuide/CHAP_SQLServer.html),
but there are differences that need to be accommodated. A key limitation is that Amazon RDS doesn't support
the "sysadmin" role, which is used by default during Vault's revocation process for MSSQL. The workaround
is to add custom revocation statements to roles, for example:

```shell
vault write database/roles/my-role revocation_statements="\
   USE my_database \
   IF EXISTS \
     (SELECT name \
      FROM sys.database_principals \
      WHERE name = N'{{name}}') \
   BEGIN \
     DROP USER [{{name}}] \
   END \

   IF EXISTS \
     (SELECT name \
      FROM master.sys.server_principals \
      WHERE name = N'{{name}}') \
   BEGIN \
     DROP LOGIN [{{name}}] \
   END"
```

## API

The full list of configurable options can be seen in the [MSSQL database
plugin API](/vault/api-docs/secret/databases/mssql) page.

For more information on the database secrets engine's HTTP API please see the
[Database secrets engine API](/vault/api-docs/secret/databases) page.

Commit message:

feat: add warning about deadlock potential with MSSQL
In MSSQL, modifying a role acquires a lock that prevents even read
operations, which can lead to temporary deadlocks. It is very easy for
users to be blindsided by these deadlocks, since with dynamic credential
creation such a modification can occur at any time. Unless a user is a
database expert, they will not be aware of this issue.

See also https://ci.xovis.com/job/Cirrus/job/Suite-pr-cleanup/.

content/vault/v1.21.x/content/docs/secrets/databases/mssql.mdx, after:

---
layout: docs
page_title: MSSQL database secrets engine
description: >-
  MSSQL is one of the supported plugins for the database secrets engine. This
  plugin generates database credentials dynamically based on configured roles
  for the MSSQL database.
---

# MSSQL database secrets engine

MSSQL is one of the supported plugins for the database secrets engine. This
plugin generates database credentials dynamically based on configured roles for
the MSSQL database.

See the [database secrets engine](/vault/docs/secrets/databases) docs for
more information about setting up the database secrets engine.

The following privileges are needed by the plugin for minimum functionality. Additional privileges may be needed 
depending on the SQL configured on the database roles. 

```sql
-- Create Login
CREATE LOGIN vault_login WITH PASSWORD = '<password>';

-- Create User
CREATE user vault_user for login vault_login;

-- Grant Permissions
GRANT ALTER ANY LOGIN TO "vault_user";
GRANT ALTER ANY USER TO "vault_user";
GRANT ALTER ANY CONNECTION TO "vault_login";
GRANT CONTROL ON SCHEMA::<schema_name> TO "vault_user";
EXEC sp_addrolemember "db_accessadmin", "vault_user";
```

## Capabilities

| Plugin Name             | Root Credential Rotation | Dynamic Roles | Static Roles | Username Customization |
| ----------------------- | ------------------------ | ------------- | ------------ | ---------------------- |
| `mssql-database-plugin` | Yes                      | Yes           | Yes          | Yes (1.7+)             |

## Setup

1.  Enable the database secrets engine if it is not already enabled:

    ```text
    $ vault secrets enable database
    Success! Enabled the database secrets engine at: database/
    ```

    By default, the secrets engine will enable at the name of the engine. To
    enable the secrets engine at a different path, use the `-path` argument.

1.  Configure Vault with the proper plugin and connection information:

    ```text
    $ vault write database/config/my-mssql-database \
        plugin_name=mssql-database-plugin \
        connection_url='sqlserver://{{username}}:{{password}}@localhost:1433' \
        allowed_roles="my-role" \
        username="vaultuser" \
        password="yourStrong(!)Password"
    ```

    ~> Note: The example above demonstrates a connection with SQL server user named `vaultuser`, although the user `vaultuser` might be Windows Authentication user part of Active Directory domain, for example: `DOMAIN\vaultuser`.

    In this case, we've configured Vault with the user "vaultuser" and password
    "yourStrong(!)Password", connecting to an instance at "localhost" on port 1433. It is
    not necessary that Vault has the vaultuser login, but the user must have privileges
    to create logins and manage processes. The fixed server roles
    `securityadmin` and `processadmin` are examples of built-in roles that grant
    these permissions. The user also must have privileges to create database
    users and grant permissions in the databases that Vault manages. The fixed
    database roles `db_accessadmin` and `db_securityadmin` are examples or
    built-in roles that grant these permissions.

1.  Configure a role that maps a name in Vault to an SQL statement to execute to
    create the database credential:

    ```text
    $ vault write database/roles/my-role \
        db_name=my-mssql-database \
        creation_statements="CREATE LOGIN [{{name}}] WITH PASSWORD = '{{password}}';\
            CREATE USER [{{name}}] FOR LOGIN [{{name}}];\
            GRANT SELECT ON SCHEMA::dbo TO [{{name}}];" \
        default_ttl="1h" \
        max_ttl="24h"
    Success! Data written to: database/roles/my-role
    ```

~> **Be aware!** If no `revocation_statement` is supplied,
vault will execute the default revocation procedure.
In larger databases, this might cause connection timeouts.
Please specify a revocation statement in such a scenario.

<Warning>

  For operations such as `ALTER ROLE ... ADD MEMBER ...`, a schema modification
  lock (`SCH-M`) lock is acquired. This will block even read operations, since
  read operations aquire a schema stability lock (`SCH-S`). As a result,
  credential rotatation with `ALTER ROLE ... ADD MEMBER ...` can cause temporary
  deadlocks on the database.
  Refer to the [Microsoft documentation](https://ci.xovis.com/job/Cirrus/job/Suite-pr-cleanup/)
  for reference.

</Warning>

## Usage

After the secrets engine is configured and a user/machine has a Vault token with
the proper permission, it can generate credentials.

1.  Generate a new credential by reading from the `/creds` endpoint with the name
    of the role:

    ```text
    $ vault read database/creds/my-role
    Key                Value
    ---                -----
    lease_id           database/creds/my-role/2f6a614c-4aa2-7b19-24b9-ad944a8d4de6
    lease_duration     1h
    lease_renewable    true
    password           wJKpk9kg-T1Ma7qQfS8y
    username           v-vaultuser-my-role-r7kCtKGGr3eYQP1OGR6G-1602542258
    ```

## Example for Azure SQL database

Here is a complete example using Azure SQL Database. Note that databases in
Azure SQL Database are [contained databases](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/sql/relational-databases/databases/contained-databases)
and that we do not create a login for the user; instead, we associate the
password directly with the user itself. Also note that you will need a separate
connection and role for each Azure SQL database for which you want to generate
dynamic credentials. You can use a single database backend mount for all these
databases or use a separate mount for each of them. In this example, we use a
custom path for the database backend.

<Note>
  Azure SQL databases may use different authentication mechanism that are configured on the SQL server. Vault only supports SQL authentication. Azure AD authentication is not supported.
</Note>

First, we mount a database backend at the azuresql path with `vault secrets
enable -path=azuresql database`. Then we configure a connection called
"testvault" to connect to a database called "test-vault", using "azuresql" at
the beginning of our path and set the `contained_db` field:

    ~> Note: If you are using a windows vault client with cmd.exe, change the single quotes to double quotes in the connection string.  Windows cmd.exe does not interpret single quotes as a continous string
    
```shell-session
$ vault write azuresql/config/testvault \
    plugin_name=mssql-database-plugin \
    connection_url='server=hashisqlserver.database.windows.net;port=1433;user id=admin;password=pAssw0rd;database=test-vault;app name=vault;' \
    contained_db=true \
    allowed_roles="test"
```

Now we add a role called "test" for use with the "testvault" connection:

```shell-session
$ vault write azuresql/roles/test \
    db_name=testvault \
    creation_statements="CREATE USER [{{name}}] WITH PASSWORD = '{{password}}';" \
    revocation_statements="DROP USER IF EXISTS [{{name}}]" \
    default_ttl="1h" \
    max_ttl="24h"
```

We can now use this role to dynamically generate credentials for the Azure SQL database, test-vault:

```shell-session
$ vault read azuresql/creds/test
Key            	Value
---            	-----
lease_id       	azuresql/creds/test/2e5b1e0b-a081-c7e1-5622-39f58e79a719
lease_duration 	1h0m0s
lease_renewable	true
password       	cZ-BJy-SqO5tKwazAuUP
username       	v-token-test-tr2t4x9pxvq1z8878s9s-1513446795
```

When we no longer need the backend, we can unmount it with `vault unmount azuresql`. Now, you can use the MSSQL Database Plugin with your Azure SQL databases.

## Amazon RDS

The MSSQL plugin supports databases running on [Amazon RDS](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/AmazonRDS/latest/UserGuide/CHAP_SQLServer.html),
but there are differences that need to be accommodated. A key limitation is that Amazon RDS doesn't support
the "sysadmin" role, which is used by default during Vault's revocation process for MSSQL. The workaround
is to add custom revocation statements to roles, for example:

```shell
vault write database/roles/my-role revocation_statements="\
   USE my_database \
   IF EXISTS \
     (SELECT name \
      FROM sys.database_principals \
      WHERE name = N'{{name}}') \
   BEGIN \
     DROP USER [{{name}}] \
   END \

   IF EXISTS \
     (SELECT name \
      FROM master.sys.server_principals \
      WHERE name = N'{{name}}') \
   BEGIN \
     DROP LOGIN [{{name}}] \
   END"
```

## API

The full list of configurable options can be seen in the [MSSQL database
plugin API](/vault/api-docs/secret/databases/mssql) page.

For more information on the database secrets engine's HTTP API please see the
[Database secrets engine API](/vault/api-docs/secret/databases) page.
