content/terraform/v1.15.x (alpha)/docs/language/block/variable.mdx, before:

---
page_title: variable block reference for the Terraform configuration language
description: Use variables to parameterize your configuration, making your modules dynamic, reusable, and flexible by intaking values at run time.
---

# `variable` block reference

Use the `variable` block to parameterize your configuration so that module consumers can pass custom values into the configuration at runtime.

> **Hands-on:** Try the [Customize Terraform Configuration with Variables](/terraform/tutorials/configuration-language/variables) tutorial.

## Background

The `variable` block is similar to a function argument in other programming languages. Input variables let you customize Terraform modules without altering their source code. Variables serve as parameters for modules, making them composable and reusable.

You can define variables in root modules, or in child modules:
- In the root modules, you can set variable values using CLI options, environment variables, variable definition files, or through an HCP Terraform workspace.
- In child modules, the parent module passes values to child modules as arguments to the `module` block.

To learn more about the different ways to use and set values for variables, refer to [Use variables to input module arguments](/terraform/language/values/variables).

## Configuration model

The `variable` block supports the following arguments:

- [`variable "<LABEL>"`](#variable) &nbsp; block
  - [`type`](#type) &nbsp; type constraint
  - [`default`](#default) &nbsp; expression
  - [`description`](#description) &nbsp; string
  - [`validation`](#validation) &nbsp; block
    - [`condition`](#validation) &nbsp; expression
    - [`error_message`](#validation) &nbsp; string
  - [`sensitive`](#sensitive) &nbsp; boolean
  - [`nullable`](#nullable) &nbsp; boolean
  - [`ephemeral`](#ephemeral) &nbsp; boolean

## Complete configuration

All available arguments are defined in the following `variable` block. There are no mutually exclusive arguments for a `variable` block.

```hcl
variable "<LABEL>" {
  type        = <TYPE>
  default     = <DEFAULT_VALUE>
  description = "<DESCRIPTION>"
  sensitive   = <true|false>
  nullable    = <true|false>
  ephemeral   = <true|false>

  validation {
    condition     = <EXPRESSION>
    error_message = "<ERROR_MESSAGE>"
  }
}
```

## Specification

A `variable` block supports the following configuration.

### `variable "<LABEL>"`

The label after the `variable` keyword is a name for the variable, which must be unique among all variables in the same module. The name of a variable can be any valid [identifier](/terraform/language/syntax/configuration#identifiers) except the following reserved names: `source`, `version`, `providers`, `count`, `for_each`, `lifecycle`, `depends_on`, or `locals`.

The following arguments are supported in a `variable` block:

| Argument | Description | Type | Required? |
| --- | --- | --- | --- |
| `type` | Specify a type constraint for the value argument of this variable. | Type constraint | Optional |
| `default` | Sets the default value for this variable. Variables without a default value are required to define a value argument. | Expression | Optional |
| `description` | A description of the variable’s purpose and the value it expects. | String | Optional |
| `validation` | Specify a rule the value of this variable must meet, in addition to any type constraints. | Block | Optional |
| `sensitive` | Specifies if Terraform hides this value in CLI output. | Boolean | Optional |
| `nullable` | Specifies if the value of a variable can be `null`. | Boolean | Optional |
| `ephemeral` | Specifies whether to prevent storing this value in state or plan files. | Boolean | Optional |

### `type`

The `type` argument in a `variable` block constrains the type of value that you can assign to that variable. If you do not set a type constraint, the variable accepts a value of any type.

```hcl
variable "unique_name" {
  type = <type-constraint>
}
```

Defining type constraints helps your module consumer understand what value your variable needs, and type constraints also provide helpful error messages if consumers attempt to use an invalid type.

You can use any valid primitive, complex, or structural type as a constraint in a variable block. For details about types, constructors, and conversions, refer to [Type constraints](/terraform/language/expressions/types).

#### Summary

- Data type: Type constraint
- Default: `any`
- Example: [Basic variable declaration](#basic-variable-declaration)

### `default`

The `default` argument defines a default value for the variable, making it optional to provide a value. If you do not provide a variable value when using a module, Terraform uses the default value.


```hcl
variable "region" {
  type    = string
  default = <default-value>
}
```

If you specify both the `type` and `default` arguments, the default value must convert to the specified type. The `default` argument requires a literal value and cannot reference other objects in the configuration.

#### Summary

- Data type: Expression
- Default: None, but you must define a value argument if you do not define a default argument.
- Example: [Basic variable declaration](#basic-variable-declaration)

### `description`

The `description` argument in a `variable` block documents the purpose of a variable and the value the block expects.

```hcl
variable "image_id" {
  type        = string
  description = "<description-from-the-module-consumer-point-of-view>”
}
```

Write your description from the perspective of a module consumer to help your users understand how to use this variable. If you need to leave commentary about a variable block as a module maintainer, use a comment instead.

#### Summary

- Data type: String
- Default: None
- Example: [Basic variable declaration](#basic-variable-declaration)


### `validation`

The `validation` block lets you enforce that a variable value meets your specific requirements, in addition to any type constraints. Use variable validations to guarantee a variable meets your configuration’s needs before Terraform finishes generating a plan.

```hcl
variable "unique_name" {
  value  = <expression-to-evaluate>

  validation {
    condition     = <expression-to-verify>
    error_message = "<error message string>"
  }
}
```

You can specify the following arguments in the `validation` block:

| Argument | Description | Type | Required |
| --- | --- | --- | --- |
| `condition` | Expression that must evaluate to `true` for Terraform to proceed with an operation. | A valid [Conditional expression](/terraform/language/expressions/conditionals). | Required |
| `error_message` | Message to display if the condition evaluates to false. | String | Required |

Terraform evaluates variable validations while it creates a plan, and if a validation block's `condition` expression evaluates to `false`, then Terraform throws an error, displays the `error_message`, and stops the current operation. Refer to [Validate your configuration](/terraform/language/validate#input-variable-validation) for more details and examples.

#### Summary

- Data type: Block
- Default: None
- Example: [Variable with validation](#variable-with-validation)

### `sensitive`


The `sensitive` argument prevents Terraform from showing a variable block's value in CLI output when you use that variable in your configuration.

```hcl
variable "user_password" {
  type      = string
  sensitive = true
}
```

When you mark a variable as sensitive, Terraform redacts its value in plan and apply logs. Terraform also treats any expressions that use a sensitive variable as sensitive.

```hcl
Terraform will perform the following actions:

  # some_resource.a will be created
  + resource "some_resource" "a" {
      + user_password = (sensitive value)
    }

Plan: 1 to add, 0 to change, 0 to destroy.
```

Terraform still records sensitive values in state, so anyone who can access your state data can access your sensitive values. For more information about safely storing sensitive data, refer to [Manage sensitive data](/terraform/language/manage-sensitive-data).

#### Summary

- Data type: Boolean
- Default: `false`
- Example: [Sensitive variable](#sensitive-variable)

### `nullable`

Enabling the `nullable` argument lets module consumers assign the value `null` to the variable.

```hcl
variable "example" {
  type     = string
  nullable = false
}
```

If `nullable` is `false` in a variable block, then that variable must have a value that is not null. If nullable is true and the variable has a `default` argument, you can explicitly set the variable value to null, overwriting the default argument.

If a variable uses a collection or structural type, such as a list or object, a module consumer can  use `null` in nested elements as long as the collection or structure itself is not null.

#### Summary

- Data type: Boolean
- Default: `true`

### `ephemeral`

<Note>

Ephemeral variables are available in Terraform v1.10 and later.

</Note>

The `ephemeral` argument makes a variable available during runtime, but Terraform omits ephemeral values from state and plan files. The `ephemeral` argument is useful for values that only exist temporarily, such as a short-lived token or session identifier.

```hcl
variable "session_token" {
  type      = string
  ephemeral = true
}
```

You can reference and set ephemeral variables values from specific contexts:
- An [`output` block](/terraform/language/block/output#ephemeral) with the ephemeral argument
- In another variable block with the ephemeral argument
- A [write-only argument](/terraform/language/manage-sensitive-data/write-only) in a resource block
- [An `ephemeral` resource block](/terraform/language/block/ephemeral)
- In the [`provider` block](/terraform/language/providers) to configure providers
- In a provisioner and provisioner connection configuration. Refer to [Use a provisioner](/terraform/language/provisioners#use-a-provisioner) for more information.

If another expression references a variable with the `ephemeral` argument, that expression also implicitly becomes ephemeral.

#### Summary

- Data type: Boolean
- Default: `false`
- Example: [Ephemeral variable](#ephemeral-variable)

## Examples

The following examples demonstrate common use cases for `variable` blocks.

### Basic variable declaration

In the following example, the image_id variable requires a string value and has no default, making it required. The availability_zone_names variable accepts a list of strings and provides a default value, making it optional for users to provide a value for this variable:

```hcl
variable "image_id" {
  type        = string
  description = "The ID of the machine image (AMI) to use for the server."
}

variable "availability_zone_names" {
  type        = list(string)
  description = "List of availability zones where resources will be deployed."
  default     = ["us-west-1a"]
}
```

### Set a value to a complex type

In the following example, the `docker_ports` variable accepts a list of objects where each object must have `internal` and `external` number attributes and a `protocol` string attribute:

```hcl
variable "docker_ports" {
  type = list(object({
    internal = number
    external = number
    protocol = string
  }))
  description = "List of port configurations for Docker containers."
  default = [
    {
      internal = 8300
      external = 8300
      protocol = "tcp"
    }
  ]
}
```

### Variable with validation
In the following example, the validation block ensures that the `image_id` value is longer than 4 characters and starts with "ami-". If the variable value does not meet the condition, Terraform displays the specified error message:

```hcl
variable "image_id" {
  type        = string
  description = "The ID of the machine image (AMI) to use for the server."

  validation {
    condition     = length(var.image_id) > 4 && substr(var.image_id, 0, 4) == "ami-"
    error_message = "The image_id value must be a valid AMI ID, starting with \"ami-\"."
  }
}
```

### Sensitive variable

In the following example, the `database_password` variable is marked as sensitive, which causes Terraform to redact both the variable value and any resource attributes that use it from logs:

```hcl
variable "database_password" {
  type        = string
  description = "Password for the database instance."
  sensitive   = true
}

resource "aws_db_instance" "example" {
  identifier = "my-database"
  engine     = "mysql"
  username   = "admin"
  password   = var.database_password
  # …
}
```

When you run a plan or apply operation, Terraform displays sensitive values as `(sensitive value)`. Terraform obscures both the database_password variable and any resource arguments that use that variable, for example Terraform logs the following when applying the configuration:

```shell-session
Terraform will perform the following actions:

  # aws_db_instance.example will be created
  + resource "aws_db_instance" "example" {
      + identifier = "my-database"
      + engine     = "mysql"
      + username   = "admin"
      + password   = (sensitive value)
    }

Plan: 1 to add, 0 to change, 0 to destroy.
```

Any expression that references a sensitive variable becomes sensitive automatically.


### Ephemeral variable

The following example configures the AWS provider by referencing credentials from three separate variables containing sensitive data. The `access_key`, `secret_key`, and  `session_token` variables are `ephemeral`, so they are available during Terraform operations, but are not stored in state or plan files afterwards.

```hcl
variable "access_key" {
  description = "AWS access key"
  type     = string
  ephemeral = true
}

variable "secret_key" {
  description = "AWS sensitive secret key."
  type     = string
  sensitive = true
  ephemeral = true
}

variable "session_token" {
  description = "AWS session token."
  type     = string
  sensitive = true
  ephemeral = true
}

provider "aws" {
  access_key = var.access_key
  secret_key = var.secret_key
  token      = var.session_token
}
```

Commit message:

document deprecated variables and outputs feature

content/terraform/v1.15.x (alpha)/docs/language/block/variable.mdx, after:

---
page_title: variable block reference for the Terraform configuration language
description: Use variables to parameterize your configuration, making your modules dynamic, reusable, and flexible by intaking values at run time.
---

# `variable` block reference

Use the `variable` block to parameterize your configuration so that module consumers can pass custom values into the configuration at runtime.

> **Hands-on:** Try the [Customize Terraform Configuration with Variables](/terraform/tutorials/configuration-language/variables) tutorial.

## Background

The `variable` block is similar to a function argument in other programming languages. Input variables let you customize Terraform modules without altering their source code. Variables serve as parameters for modules, making them composable and reusable.

You can define variables in root modules, or in child modules:
- In the root modules, you can set variable values using CLI options, environment variables, variable definition files, or through an HCP Terraform workspace.
- In child modules, the parent module passes values to child modules as arguments to the `module` block.

To learn more about the different ways to use and set values for variables, refer to [Use variables to input module arguments](/terraform/language/values/variables).

## Configuration model

The `variable` block supports the following arguments:

- [`variable "<LABEL>"`](#variable) &nbsp; block
  - [`type`](#type) &nbsp; type constraint
  - [`default`](#default) &nbsp; expression
  - [`description`](#description) &nbsp; string
  - [`validation`](#validation) &nbsp; block
    - [`condition`](#validation) &nbsp; expression
    - [`error_message`](#validation) &nbsp; string
  - [`sensitive`](#sensitive) &nbsp; boolean
  - [`nullable`](#nullable) &nbsp; boolean
  - [`ephemeral`](#ephemeral) &nbsp; boolean
  - [`deprecated`](#deprecated) &nbsp; string

## Complete configuration

All available arguments are defined in the following `variable` block. There are no mutually exclusive arguments for a `variable` block.

```hcl
variable "<LABEL>" {
  type        = <TYPE>
  default     = <DEFAULT_VALUE>
  description = "<DESCRIPTION>"
  sensitive   = <true|false>
  nullable    = <true|false>
  ephemeral   = <true|false>

  validation {
    condition     = <EXPRESSION>
    error_message = "<ERROR_MESSAGE>"
  }
}
```

## Specification

A `variable` block supports the following configuration.

### `variable "<LABEL>"`

The label after the `variable` keyword is a name for the variable, which must be unique among all variables in the same module. The name of a variable can be any valid [identifier](/terraform/language/syntax/configuration#identifiers) except the following reserved names: `source`, `version`, `providers`, `count`, `for_each`, `lifecycle`, `depends_on`, or `locals`.

The following arguments are supported in a `variable` block:

| Argument | Description | Type | Required? |
| --- | --- | --- | --- |
| `type` | Specify a type constraint for the value argument of this variable. | Type constraint | Optional |
| `default` | Sets the default value for this variable. Variables without a default value are required to define a value argument. | Expression | Optional |
| `description` | A description of the variable’s purpose and the value it expects. | String | Optional |
| `validation` | Specify a rule the value of this variable must meet, in addition to any type constraints. | Block | Optional |
| `sensitive` | Specifies if Terraform hides this value in CLI output. | Boolean | Optional |
| `nullable` | Specifies if the value of a variable can be `null`. | Boolean | Optional |
| `ephemeral` | Specifies whether to prevent storing this value in state or plan files. | Boolean | Optional |

### `type`

The `type` argument in a `variable` block constrains the type of value that you can assign to that variable. If you do not set a type constraint, the variable accepts a value of any type.

```hcl
variable "unique_name" {
  type = <type-constraint>
}
```

Defining type constraints helps your module consumer understand what value your variable needs, and type constraints also provide helpful error messages if consumers attempt to use an invalid type.

You can use any valid primitive, complex, or structural type as a constraint in a variable block. For details about types, constructors, and conversions, refer to [Type constraints](/terraform/language/expressions/types).

#### Summary

- Data type: Type constraint
- Default: `any`
- Example: [Basic variable declaration](#basic-variable-declaration)

### `default`

The `default` argument defines a default value for the variable, making it optional to provide a value. If you do not provide a variable value when using a module, Terraform uses the default value.


```hcl
variable "region" {
  type    = string
  default = <default-value>
}
```

If you specify both the `type` and `default` arguments, the default value must convert to the specified type. The `default` argument requires a literal value and cannot reference other objects in the configuration.

#### Summary

- Data type: Expression
- Default: None, but you must define a value argument if you do not define a default argument.
- Example: [Basic variable declaration](#basic-variable-declaration)

### `description`

The `description` argument in a `variable` block documents the purpose of a variable and the value the block expects.

```hcl
variable "image_id" {
  type        = string
  description = "<description-from-the-module-consumer-point-of-view>”
}
```

Write your description from the perspective of a module consumer to help your users understand how to use this variable. If you need to leave commentary about a variable block as a module maintainer, use a comment instead.

#### Summary

- Data type: String
- Default: None
- Example: [Basic variable declaration](#basic-variable-declaration)


### `validation`

The `validation` block lets you enforce that a variable value meets your specific requirements, in addition to any type constraints. Use variable validations to guarantee a variable meets your configuration’s needs before Terraform finishes generating a plan.

```hcl
variable "unique_name" {
  value  = <expression-to-evaluate>

  validation {
    condition     = <expression-to-verify>
    error_message = "<error message string>"
  }
}
```

You can specify the following arguments in the `validation` block:

| Argument | Description | Type | Required |
| --- | --- | --- | --- |
| `condition` | Expression that must evaluate to `true` for Terraform to proceed with an operation. | A valid [Conditional expression](/terraform/language/expressions/conditionals). | Required |
| `error_message` | Message to display if the condition evaluates to false. | String | Required |

Terraform evaluates variable validations while it creates a plan, and if a validation block's `condition` expression evaluates to `false`, then Terraform throws an error, displays the `error_message`, and stops the current operation. Refer to [Validate your configuration](/terraform/language/validate#input-variable-validation) for more details and examples.

#### Summary

- Data type: Block
- Default: None
- Example: [Variable with validation](#variable-with-validation)

### `sensitive`


The `sensitive` argument prevents Terraform from showing a variable block's value in CLI output when you use that variable in your configuration.

```hcl
variable "user_password" {
  type      = string
  sensitive = true
}
```

When you mark a variable as sensitive, Terraform redacts its value in plan and apply logs. Terraform also treats any expressions that use a sensitive variable as sensitive.

```hcl
Terraform will perform the following actions:

  # some_resource.a will be created
  + resource "some_resource" "a" {
      + user_password = (sensitive value)
    }

Plan: 1 to add, 0 to change, 0 to destroy.
```

Terraform still records sensitive values in state, so anyone who can access your state data can access your sensitive values. For more information about safely storing sensitive data, refer to [Manage sensitive data](/terraform/language/manage-sensitive-data).

#### Summary

- Data type: Boolean
- Default: `false`
- Example: [Sensitive variable](#sensitive-variable)

### `nullable`

Enabling the `nullable` argument lets module consumers assign the value `null` to the variable.

```hcl
variable "example" {
  type     = string
  nullable = false
}
```

If `nullable` is `false` in a variable block, then that variable must have a value that is not null. If nullable is true and the variable has a `default` argument, you can explicitly set the variable value to null, overwriting the default argument.

If a variable uses a collection or structural type, such as a list or object, a module consumer can  use `null` in nested elements as long as the collection or structure itself is not null.

#### Summary

- Data type: Boolean
- Default: `true`

### `ephemeral`

<Note>

Ephemeral variables are available in Terraform v1.10 and later.

</Note>

The `ephemeral` argument makes a variable available during runtime, but Terraform omits ephemeral values from state and plan files. The `ephemeral` argument is useful for values that only exist temporarily, such as a short-lived token or session identifier.

```hcl
variable "session_token" {
  type      = string
  ephemeral = true
}
```

You can reference and set ephemeral variables values from specific contexts:
- An [`output` block](/terraform/language/block/output#ephemeral) with the ephemeral argument
- In another variable block with the ephemeral argument
- A [write-only argument](/terraform/language/manage-sensitive-data/write-only) in a resource block
- [An `ephemeral` resource block](/terraform/language/block/ephemeral)
- In the [`provider` block](/terraform/language/providers) to configure providers
- In a provisioner and provisioner connection configuration. Refer to [Use a provisioner](/terraform/language/provisioners#use-a-provisioner) for more information.

If another expression references a variable with the `ephemeral` argument, that expression also implicitly becomes ephemeral.

#### Summary

- Data type: Boolean
- Default: `false`
- Example: [Ephemeral variable](#ephemeral-variable)

### `deprecated`

<Note>

Deprecated variables are available in Terraform v1.15 and later.

</Note>

If set the `deprecated` argument specifies the reason for deprecating the variable. This reason will be shown when the variable is set. This applies both to variables in root modules and in child modules.


```hcl
variable "old_input" {
  type      = string
  deprecated = "This variable is deprecated, please use 'new_input' instead."
}
variable "new_input" {
  type      = list(string)
  default   = []
}
```

#### Summary

- Data type: String
- Default: `false`


## Examples

The following examples demonstrate common use cases for `variable` blocks.

### Basic variable declaration

In the following example, the image_id variable requires a string value and has no default, making it required. The availability_zone_names variable accepts a list of strings and provides a default value, making it optional for users to provide a value for this variable:

```hcl
variable "image_id" {
  type        = string
  description = "The ID of the machine image (AMI) to use for the server."
}

variable "availability_zone_names" {
  type        = list(string)
  description = "List of availability zones where resources will be deployed."
  default     = ["us-west-1a"]
}
```

### Set a value to a complex type

In the following example, the `docker_ports` variable accepts a list of objects where each object must have `internal` and `external` number attributes and a `protocol` string attribute:

```hcl
variable "docker_ports" {
  type = list(object({
    internal = number
    external = number
    protocol = string
  }))
  description = "List of port configurations for Docker containers."
  default = [
    {
      internal = 8300
      external = 8300
      protocol = "tcp"
    }
  ]
}
```

### Variable with validation
In the following example, the validation block ensures that the `image_id` value is longer than 4 characters and starts with "ami-". If the variable value does not meet the condition, Terraform displays the specified error message:

```hcl
variable "image_id" {
  type        = string
  description = "The ID of the machine image (AMI) to use for the server."

  validation {
    condition     = length(var.image_id) > 4 && substr(var.image_id, 0, 4) == "ami-"
    error_message = "The image_id value must be a valid AMI ID, starting with \"ami-\"."
  }
}
```

### Sensitive variable

In the following example, the `database_password` variable is marked as sensitive, which causes Terraform to redact both the variable value and any resource attributes that use it from logs:

```hcl
variable "database_password" {
  type        = string
  description = "Password for the database instance."
  sensitive   = true
}

resource "aws_db_instance" "example" {
  identifier = "my-database"
  engine     = "mysql"
  username   = "admin"
  password   = var.database_password
  # …
}
```

When you run a plan or apply operation, Terraform displays sensitive values as `(sensitive value)`. Terraform obscures both the database_password variable and any resource arguments that use that variable, for example Terraform logs the following when applying the configuration:

```shell-session
Terraform will perform the following actions:

  # aws_db_instance.example will be created
  + resource "aws_db_instance" "example" {
      + identifier = "my-database"
      + engine     = "mysql"
      + username   = "admin"
      + password   = (sensitive value)
    }

Plan: 1 to add, 0 to change, 0 to destroy.
```

Any expression that references a sensitive variable becomes sensitive automatically.


### Ephemeral variable

The following example configures the AWS provider by referencing credentials from three separate variables containing sensitive data. The `access_key`, `secret_key`, and  `session_token` variables are `ephemeral`, so they are available during Terraform operations, but are not stored in state or plan files afterwards.

```hcl
variable "access_key" {
  description = "AWS access key"
  type     = string
  ephemeral = true
}

variable "secret_key" {
  description = "AWS sensitive secret key."
  type     = string
  sensitive = true
  ephemeral = true
}

variable "session_token" {
  description = "AWS session token."
  type     = string
  sensitive = true
  ephemeral = true
}

provider "aws" {
  access_key = var.access_key
  secret_key = var.secret_key
  token      = var.session_token
}
```
