content/terraform-docs-common/docs/cloud-docs/integrations/kubernetes/index.mdx, before:

---
page_title: HCP Terraform Operator for Kubernetes overview
description: >-
  The HCP Terraform Operator for Kubernetes allows you to provision infrastructure directly from
  the Kubernetes control plane.
---

# HCP Terraform Operator for Kubernetes overview

The [HCP Terraform Operator for Kubernetes](https://github.com/hashicorp/hcp-terraform-operator) allows you to manage HCP Terraform resources with Kubernetes custom resources. You can provision infrastructure internal or external to your Kubernetes cluster directly from the Kubernetes control plane.

The operator's CustomResourceDefinitions (CRD) let you dynamically create HCP Terraform workspaces with Terraform modules, populate workspace variables, and provision infrastructure with Terraform runs.

<!-- BEGIN: TFC:only name:hcp-eu -->

<Note>

@include 'eu/integrations.mdx'

</Note>

<!-- END: TFC:only name:hcp-eu -->

## Key benefits

The HCP Terraform Operator for Kubernetes v2 offers several improvements over v1:

- **Flexible resource management**: The operator now features multiple custom resources, each with separate controllers for different HCP Terraform resources. This provides additional flexibility and the ability to manage more custom resources concurrently, significantly improving performance for large-scale deployments.

- **Namespace management**: The `--namespace` option allows you to tailor the operator's watch scope to specific namespaces, which enables more fine-grained resource management.

- **Configurable synchronization**: The `--sync-period` option allows you to configure the synchronization frequency between custom resources and HCP Terraform, ensuring timely updates and smoother operations.


## Supported HCP Terraform features

The HCP Terraform Operator for Kubernetes allows you to create agent pools, deploy modules, and manage workspaces through Kubernetes controllers. These controllers enable you to automate and manage HCP Terraform resources using custom resources in Kubernetes.

### Agent pools

Agent pools in HCP Terraform manage the execution environment for Terraform runs. The HCP Terraform Operator for Kubernetes allows you to create and manage agent pools as part of your Kubernetes infrastructure.

The following example creates a new agent pool with the name `agent-pool-development` and generates an agent token with the name `token-red`.

```yaml
---
apiVersion: app.terraform.io/v1alpha2
kind: AgentPool
metadata:
  name: my-agent-pool
spec:
  organization: kubernetes-operator
  token:
    secretKeyRef:
      name: tfc-operator
      key: token
  name: agent-pool-development
  agentTokens:
    - name: token-red
```

The operator stores the `token-red` agent token in a Kubernetes secret named `my-agent-pool-token-red`.

You can also enable agent autoscaling by providing a `.spec.autoscaling` configuration in your `AgentPool` specification.

<CodeBlockConfig highlight="17-26">

```yaml
---
apiVersion: app.terraform.io/v1alpha2
kind: AgentPool
metadata:
  name: this
spec:
  organization: kubernetes-operator
  token:
    secretKeyRef:
      name: tfc-operator
      key: token
  name: agent-pool-development
  agentTokens:
  - name: token-red
  agentDeployment:
   replicas: 1
  autoscaling:
    targetWorkspaces:
    - name: us-west-development
    - id: ws-NUVHA9feCXzAmPHx
    - wildcardName: eu-development-*
    minReplicas: 1
    maxReplicas: 3
    cooldownPeriod:
      scaleUpSeconds: 30
      scaleDownSeconds: 30
```

</CodeBlockConfig>

In the above example, the operator ensures that at least one agent pod is continuously running and dynamically scales the number of pods up to a maximum of three based on the workload or resource demand. The operator then monitors resource demands by observing the load of the designated workspaces specified by the `name`, `id`, or `wildcardName` patterns. When the workload decreases, the operator downscales the number of agent pods.

Refer to the [agent pool API reference](/terraform/cloud-docs/integrations/kubernetes/api-reference#agentpool) for the complete `AgentPool` specification.

### Module

The `Module` controller enforces an [API-driven Run workflow](/terraform/cloud-docs/workspaces/run/api) and lets you deploy Terraform modules within workspaces.

The following example deploys version `1.0.0` of the `hashicorp/module/random` module in the `workspace-name` workspace.

```yaml
---
apiVersion: app.terraform.io/v1alpha2
kind: Module
metadata:
  name: my-module
spec:
  organization: kubernetes-operator
  token:
    secretKeyRef:
      name: tfc-operator
      key: token
  module:
    source: hashicorp/module/random
    version: 1.0.0
  workspace:
    name: workspace-name
  variables:
  - name: string_length
  outputs:
  - name: random_string
```

The operator passes the workspace's `string_length` variable to the module and stores the `random_string` outputs as either a Kubernetes secret or a ConfigMap. If the workspace marks the output as `sensitive`, the operator stores the `random_string` as a Kubernetes secret; otherwise, the operator stores it as a ConfigMap. The variables must be accessible within the workspace as a workspace variable, workspace variable set, or project variable set.

Refer to the [module API reference](/terraform/cloud-docs/integrations/kubernetes/api-reference#module) for the complete `Module` specification.

### Project

Projects let you organize your workspaces and scope access to workspace resources. The `Project` controller allows you to create, configure, and manage [projects](/terraform/tutorials/cloud/projects) directly from Kubernetes.

The following example creates a new project named `testing`.

```yaml
---
apiVersion: app.terraform.io/v1alpha2
kind: Project
metadata:
  name: testing
spec:
  organization: kubernetes-operator
  token:
    secretKeyRef:
      name: tfc-operator
      key: token
  name: project-demo
```

The `Project` controller allows you to manage team access [permissions](/terraform/cloud-docs/users-teams-organizations/permissions/project).

The following example creates a project named `testing` and grants the `qa` team admin access to the project.

<CodeBlockConfig highlight="13-16">

```yaml
---
apiVersion: app.terraform.io/v1alpha2
kind: Project
metadata:
  name: testing
spec:
  organization: kubernetes-operator
  token:
    secretKeyRef:
      name: tfc-operator
      key: token
  name: project-demo
  teamAccess:
  - team:
      name: qa
    access: admin
```

</CodeBlockConfig>

Refer to the [project API reference](/terraform/cloud-docs/integrations/kubernetes/api-reference#project) for the complete `Project` specification.

### Workspace

HCP Terraform workspaces organize and manage Terraform configurations. The HCP Terraform Operator for Kubernetes allows you to create, configure, and manage workspaces directly from Kubernetes.

The following example creates a new workspace named `us-west-development`, configured to use Terraform version `1.6.2`. This workspace has two variables, `nodes` and `rds-secret`. The variable `rds-secret` is treated as sensitive, and the operator reads the value for the variable from a Kubernetes secret named `us-west-development-secrets`.

```yaml
---
apiVersion: app.terraform.io/v1alpha2
kind: Workspace
metadata:
  name: us-west-development
spec:
  organization: kubernetes-operator
  token:
    secretKeyRef:
      name: tfc-operator
      key: token
  name: us-west-development
  description: US West development workspace
  terraformVersion: 1.6.2
  applyMethod: auto
  agentPool:
    name: ap-us-west-development
  terraformVariables:
    - name: nodes
      value: 2
    - name: rds-secret
      sensitive: true
      valueFrom:
        secretKeyRef:
          name: us-west-development-secrets
          key: rds-secret
  runTasks:
    - name: rt-us-west-development
      stage: pre_plan
```

In the above example, the `applyMethod` has the value of `auto`, so HCP Terraform automatically applies any changes to this workspace. The specification also configures the workspace to use the `ap-us-west-development` agent pool and run the `rt-us-west-development` run task at the `pre_plan` stage.

The operator stores the value of the workspace outputs as Kubernetes secrets or ConfigMaps. If the outputs are marked as `sensitive`, they are stored as Kubernetes secrets, otherwise they are stored as ConfigMaps.

-> **Note**: The operator rolls back any external modifications made to the workspace to match the state specified in the custom resource definition.

Refer to the [workspace API reference](/terraform/cloud-docs/integrations/kubernetes/api-reference#workspace) for the complete `Workspace` specification.

Commit message:

Add plan-only callout to kubernetes operator docs

content/terraform-docs-common/docs/cloud-docs/integrations/kubernetes/index.mdx, after:

---
page_title: HCP Terraform Operator for Kubernetes overview
description: >-
  The HCP Terraform Operator for Kubernetes allows you to provision infrastructure directly from
  the Kubernetes control plane.
---

# HCP Terraform Operator for Kubernetes overview

The [HCP Terraform Operator for Kubernetes](https://github.com/hashicorp/hcp-terraform-operator) allows you to manage HCP Terraform resources with Kubernetes custom resources. You can provision infrastructure internal or external to your Kubernetes cluster directly from the Kubernetes control plane.

The operator's CustomResourceDefinitions (CRD) let you dynamically create HCP Terraform workspaces with Terraform modules, populate workspace variables, and provision infrastructure with Terraform runs.

<!-- BEGIN: TFC:only name:hcp-eu -->

<Note>

@include 'eu/integrations.mdx'

</Note>

<!-- END: TFC:only name:hcp-eu -->

## Key benefits

The HCP Terraform Operator for Kubernetes v2 offers several improvements over v1:

- **Flexible resource management**: The operator now features multiple custom resources, each with separate controllers for different HCP Terraform resources. This provides additional flexibility and the ability to manage more custom resources concurrently, significantly improving performance for large-scale deployments.

- **Namespace management**: The `--namespace` option allows you to tailor the operator's watch scope to specific namespaces, which enables more fine-grained resource management.

- **Configurable synchronization**: The `--sync-period` option allows you to configure the synchronization frequency between custom resources and HCP Terraform, ensuring timely updates and smoother operations.


## Supported HCP Terraform features

The HCP Terraform Operator for Kubernetes allows you to create agent pools, deploy modules, and manage workspaces through Kubernetes controllers. These controllers enable you to automate and manage HCP Terraform resources using custom resources in Kubernetes.

### Agent pools

Agent pools in HCP Terraform manage the execution environment for Terraform runs. The HCP Terraform Operator for Kubernetes allows you to create and manage agent pools as part of your Kubernetes infrastructure.

The following example creates a new agent pool with the name `agent-pool-development` and generates an agent token with the name `token-red`.

```yaml
---
apiVersion: app.terraform.io/v1alpha2
kind: AgentPool
metadata:
  name: my-agent-pool
spec:
  organization: kubernetes-operator
  token:
    secretKeyRef:
      name: tfc-operator
      key: token
  name: agent-pool-development
  agentTokens:
    - name: token-red
```

The operator stores the `token-red` agent token in a Kubernetes secret named `my-agent-pool-token-red`.

You can also enable agent autoscaling by providing a `.spec.autoscaling` configuration in your `AgentPool` specification.

<CodeBlockConfig highlight="17-26">

```yaml
---
apiVersion: app.terraform.io/v1alpha2
kind: AgentPool
metadata:
  name: this
spec:
  organization: kubernetes-operator
  token:
    secretKeyRef:
      name: tfc-operator
      key: token
  name: agent-pool-development
  agentTokens:
  - name: token-red
  agentDeployment:
   replicas: 1
  autoscaling:
    targetWorkspaces:
    - name: us-west-development
    - id: ws-NUVHA9feCXzAmPHx
    - wildcardName: eu-development-*
    minReplicas: 1
    maxReplicas: 3
    cooldownPeriod:
      scaleUpSeconds: 30
      scaleDownSeconds: 30
```

</CodeBlockConfig>

In the above example, the operator ensures that at least one agent pod is continuously running and dynamically scales the number of pods up to a maximum of three based on the workload or resource demand. The operator then monitors resource demands by observing the load of the designated workspaces specified by the `name`, `id`, or `wildcardName` patterns. When the workload decreases, the operator downscales the number of agent pods.

The operator runs plan-only operations in parallel with other operations, and automatically scales the number of agent pods to meet the demand.

Refer to the [agent pool API reference](/terraform/cloud-docs/integrations/kubernetes/api-reference#agentpool) for the complete `AgentPool` specification.

### Module

The `Module` controller enforces an [API-driven Run workflow](/terraform/cloud-docs/workspaces/run/api) and lets you deploy Terraform modules within workspaces.

The following example deploys version `1.0.0` of the `hashicorp/module/random` module in the `workspace-name` workspace.

```yaml
---
apiVersion: app.terraform.io/v1alpha2
kind: Module
metadata:
  name: my-module
spec:
  organization: kubernetes-operator
  token:
    secretKeyRef:
      name: tfc-operator
      key: token
  module:
    source: hashicorp/module/random
    version: 1.0.0
  workspace:
    name: workspace-name
  variables:
  - name: string_length
  outputs:
  - name: random_string
```

The operator passes the workspace's `string_length` variable to the module and stores the `random_string` outputs as either a Kubernetes secret or a ConfigMap. If the workspace marks the output as `sensitive`, the operator stores the `random_string` as a Kubernetes secret; otherwise, the operator stores it as a ConfigMap. The variables must be accessible within the workspace as a workspace variable, workspace variable set, or project variable set.

Refer to the [module API reference](/terraform/cloud-docs/integrations/kubernetes/api-reference#module) for the complete `Module` specification.

### Project

Projects let you organize your workspaces and scope access to workspace resources. The `Project` controller allows you to create, configure, and manage [projects](/terraform/tutorials/cloud/projects) directly from Kubernetes.

The following example creates a new project named `testing`.

```yaml
---
apiVersion: app.terraform.io/v1alpha2
kind: Project
metadata:
  name: testing
spec:
  organization: kubernetes-operator
  token:
    secretKeyRef:
      name: tfc-operator
      key: token
  name: project-demo
```

The `Project` controller allows you to manage team access [permissions](/terraform/cloud-docs/users-teams-organizations/permissions/project).

The following example creates a project named `testing` and grants the `qa` team admin access to the project.

<CodeBlockConfig highlight="13-16">

```yaml
---
apiVersion: app.terraform.io/v1alpha2
kind: Project
metadata:
  name: testing
spec:
  organization: kubernetes-operator
  token:
    secretKeyRef:
      name: tfc-operator
      key: token
  name: project-demo
  teamAccess:
  - team:
      name: qa
    access: admin
```

</CodeBlockConfig>

Refer to the [project API reference](/terraform/cloud-docs/integrations/kubernetes/api-reference#project) for the complete `Project` specification.

### Workspace

HCP Terraform workspaces organize and manage Terraform configurations. The HCP Terraform Operator for Kubernetes allows you to create, configure, and manage workspaces directly from Kubernetes.

The following example creates a new workspace named `us-west-development`, configured to use Terraform version `1.6.2`. This workspace has two variables, `nodes` and `rds-secret`. The variable `rds-secret` is treated as sensitive, and the operator reads the value for the variable from a Kubernetes secret named `us-west-development-secrets`.

```yaml
---
apiVersion: app.terraform.io/v1alpha2
kind: Workspace
metadata:
  name: us-west-development
spec:
  organization: kubernetes-operator
  token:
    secretKeyRef:
      name: tfc-operator
      key: token
  name: us-west-development
  description: US West development workspace
  terraformVersion: 1.6.2
  applyMethod: auto
  agentPool:
    name: ap-us-west-development
  terraformVariables:
    - name: nodes
      value: 2
    - name: rds-secret
      sensitive: true
      valueFrom:
        secretKeyRef:
          name: us-west-development-secrets
          key: rds-secret
  runTasks:
    - name: rt-us-west-development
      stage: pre_plan
```

In the above example, the `applyMethod` has the value of `auto`, so HCP Terraform automatically applies any changes to this workspace. The specification also configures the workspace to use the `ap-us-west-development` agent pool and run the `rt-us-west-development` run task at the `pre_plan` stage.

The operator stores the value of the workspace outputs as Kubernetes secrets or ConfigMaps. If the outputs are marked as `sensitive`, they are stored as Kubernetes secrets, otherwise they are stored as ConfigMaps.

-> **Note**: The operator rolls back any external modifications made to the workspace to match the state specified in the custom resource definition.

Refer to the [workspace API reference](/terraform/cloud-docs/integrations/kubernetes/api-reference#workspace) for the complete `Workspace` specification.
