content/terraform-enterprise/1.2.x/docs/enterprise/workspaces/explorer.mdx, before:

---
page_title: Terraform Enterprise explorer for workspace visibility
description: >-
  Learn how to find data about your resource, module, and provider usage across
  workspaces and projects in Terraform Enterprise with the explorer for
  workspace visibility.
source: terraform-docs-common
# START AUTO GENERATED METADATA, DO NOT EDIT
created_at: 2026-02-02T17:54:50Z
last_modified: 2026-02-06T08:59:42-08:00
# END AUTO GENERATED METADATA
---

# Explorer for workspace visibility

As your organization grows, keeping track of your sprawling infrastructure estate can get increasingly more complicated. The explorer for workspace visibility helps surface a wide range of valuable information from across your organization.

Open the explorer for workspace visibility by clicking **Explorer** in your organization's top-level side navigation.

The **Explorer** page displays buttons grouped by **Types** and **Use Cases**. Each button offers a new view into your organization or workspace's data. Clicking a button triggers the explorer to perform a query and display the results in a table of data.

![Explorer Landing Page](/img/docs/terraform-cloud-explorer-landing-page.png)

The **Types** buttons present generic use cases. For example, "Workspaces" displays a paginated and unfiltered list of your organization's workspaces and each workspace's accompanying data. The **Use Cases** buttons present sorted and filtered results to give you a focused view of your organizational data.

You can sort each column of the explorer results table. Clicking a hyperlinked field shows increasingly specific views of your data. For example, a workspace's modules count field links to a view of that workspace's associated modules.

Clearing a query takes you back to the explorer landing page. To clear a query, click the back arrow at the top left of your current explorer view page.

## Permissions

The explorer for workspace visibility requires access to a broad range of an organization's data. To use the explorer, you must have either of the following organization permissions:

-   [Organization owner](/terraform/enterprise/users-teams-organizations/permissions/organization#organization-owners)
-   [View all workspaces](/terraform/enterprise/users-teams-organizations/permissions/organization#view-all-workspaces) or greater

## Types

The explorer for workspace visibility supports four types:

-   [Workspaces](/terraform/enterprise/workspaces)
-   [Modules](/terraform/language/modules)
-   [Providers](/terraform/language/providers)
-   [Terraform Versions](/terraform/language/upgrade-guides#upgrading-to-terraform-v1-4)

## Use cases

The explorer for workspace visibility provides the following queries for specific use cases:

-   **Top module versions** shows modules sorted by usage frequency.
-   **Latest Terraform versions** displays a sorted list of Terraform versions in use.
-   **Top provider versions** lists providers sorted by usage frequency.
-   **Workspaces without VCS** lists workspaces not backed by VCS.
-   **Workspace VCS source** lists VCS-backed workspaces sorted by repository name.
-   **Workspaces with failed checks** lists workspaces that failed at least one [continuous validation](/terraform/enterprise/workspaces/health#continuous-validation) check.
-   **Drifted workspaces** displays [workspaces with drift](/terraform/enterprise/workspaces/health#drift-detection) and relevant drift information.
-   **Workspace VCS source** displays a subset of workspace data sorted by the underlying VCS repository.
-   **All workspace versions** is a simplified view of your workspaces with current run and version information.
-   **Runs by status** provides a run-focused view by sorting workspaces by their current run status.
-   **Top Terraform versions** lists all Terraform versions by usage frequency
-   **Latest updated workspaces** displays your most recently updated workspaces.
-   **Oldest applied workspaces** sorts workspaces by the date of the current applied run.

## Custom filter conditions

The explorer's query builder allows you to execute queries with custom filter conditions against any of the supported [types](#types).

To use the query builder, select a type or use case from the explorer home page. Expand the **Modify conditions** section to show the filter conditions in use for the current query and to define new filter conditions.

![Explorer Query Builder](/img/docs/query-builder.png)

Each filter condition is represented by a row of inputs, each made up of a target field, operator, and value.

1.  Choose a target field from the first dropdown to select field that the explorer will run the query against. The options available will vary based on the target field's data type.

2.  Choose an operator from the second dropdown. The options available will vary based on the target field's data type.

3.  Provide a value in the third field to compare against the target field's value.

4.  Click **Run Query** to evaluate the filter conditions.

-> **Tip:** Inspect the filter conditions used by the various pre-canned [**Use Cases**](#use-cases) to learn how they are constructed.

You can create multiple filter conditions for a query. When you provide multiple conditions, the explorer evaluates them at query time with a logical AND. To add a new condition, use the **Add condition** button below the condition list. To remove a condition, use the trash bin button on the right hand side of the condition.

## Save a view

You can save explorer views to revisit a custom query or use case.

HCP Terraform and Terraform Enterprise do not save query results or query history.
Returning to them re-runs the query and shows current results only.

You can save the explorer’s view of your data by performing the following steps:

1.  Navigate to the **Explorer** page in the sidebar of your organization.
2.  Click on a tile in the **Types** or **Use cases** section.
3.  Define a query using the query building interface.
4.  By default, the explorer displays all available information, but you can adjust which columns you want your view to include.
5.  Open the **Actions** dropdown menu and select **Save view**, saving the last query you performed in the explorer.
6.  Specify a new, unique name for your saved view.
7.  Click **Save**.

When your explorer saves a view, it saves the last query it performed. If you change a query and do not rerun it, the explorer does not save those changes.

After you have saved a view of your data, you can access it from the explorer’s main page underneath the **Saved views** tab. Saved views keep track of the following attributes:

-   The name of the saved view.
-   The type of data you are querying, either module, workspace, provider, or Terraform versions.
-   The owner of the saved view.
-   When the saved view was last updated.

You can rename or delete a saved view from the **Saved views** tab by opening the ellipsis menu next to a view and selecting either **Rename** or **Delete**.

### Manage a saved view

Complete the following steps to update a saved view:

1.  Open the view in the explorer and make changes.
2.  Open the **Actions** dropdown menu and select **Save view.**

Complete the following steps to save a new view based on an existing saved view:

1.  Open a saved view in the explorer and make changes.
2.  Open the **Actions** dropdown menu and select **Save as**.
3.  Entering a name for this new saved view.
4.  Click **Save**.

Complete the following steps to delete a saved view:

1.  Open a saved view in the explorer.
2.  Choose  **Delete view** from the **Actions** drop-down menu.
3.  Click **Delete** when prompted to confirm that you want to permanently delete the view.

<!-- BEGIN: TFEnterprise:only name:explorer -->

@include 'beta/explorer-limitations.mdx'

<!-- END: TFEnterprise:only name:explorer -->

Commit message:

removes beta mentions in limitations for 1.2.0

content/terraform-enterprise/1.2.x/docs/enterprise/workspaces/explorer.mdx, after:

---
page_title: Terraform Enterprise explorer for workspace visibility
description: >-
  Learn how to find data about your resource, module, and provider usage across
  workspaces and projects in Terraform Enterprise with the explorer for
  workspace visibility.
source: terraform-docs-common
# START AUTO GENERATED METADATA, DO NOT EDIT
created_at: 2026-02-02T17:54:50Z
last_modified: 2026-02-06T08:59:42-08:00
# END AUTO GENERATED METADATA
---

# Explorer for workspace visibility

As your organization grows, keeping track of your sprawling infrastructure estate can get increasingly more complicated. The explorer for workspace visibility helps surface a wide range of valuable information from across your organization.

Open the explorer for workspace visibility by clicking **Explorer** in your organization's top-level side navigation.

The **Explorer** page displays buttons grouped by **Types** and **Use Cases**. Each button offers a new view into your organization or workspace's data. Clicking a button triggers the explorer to perform a query and display the results in a table of data.

![Explorer Landing Page](/img/docs/terraform-cloud-explorer-landing-page.png)

The **Types** buttons present generic use cases. For example, "Workspaces" displays a paginated and unfiltered list of your organization's workspaces and each workspace's accompanying data. The **Use Cases** buttons present sorted and filtered results to give you a focused view of your organizational data.

You can sort each column of the explorer results table. Clicking a hyperlinked field shows increasingly specific views of your data. For example, a workspace's modules count field links to a view of that workspace's associated modules.

Clearing a query takes you back to the explorer landing page. To clear a query, click the back arrow at the top left of your current explorer view page.

## Permissions

The explorer for workspace visibility requires access to a broad range of an organization's data. To use the explorer, you must have either of the following organization permissions:

-   [Organization owner](/terraform/enterprise/users-teams-organizations/permissions/organization#organization-owners)
-   [View all workspaces](/terraform/enterprise/users-teams-organizations/permissions/organization#view-all-workspaces) or greater

## Types

The explorer for workspace visibility supports four types:

-   [Workspaces](/terraform/enterprise/workspaces)
-   [Modules](/terraform/language/modules)
-   [Providers](/terraform/language/providers)
-   [Terraform Versions](/terraform/language/upgrade-guides#upgrading-to-terraform-v1-4)

## Use cases

The explorer for workspace visibility provides the following queries for specific use cases:

-   **Top module versions** shows modules sorted by usage frequency.
-   **Latest Terraform versions** displays a sorted list of Terraform versions in use.
-   **Top provider versions** lists providers sorted by usage frequency.
-   **Workspaces without VCS** lists workspaces not backed by VCS.
-   **Workspace VCS source** lists VCS-backed workspaces sorted by repository name.
-   **Workspaces with failed checks** lists workspaces that failed at least one [continuous validation](/terraform/enterprise/workspaces/health#continuous-validation) check.
-   **Drifted workspaces** displays [workspaces with drift](/terraform/enterprise/workspaces/health#drift-detection) and relevant drift information.
-   **Workspace VCS source** displays a subset of workspace data sorted by the underlying VCS repository.
-   **All workspace versions** is a simplified view of your workspaces with current run and version information.
-   **Runs by status** provides a run-focused view by sorting workspaces by their current run status.
-   **Top Terraform versions** lists all Terraform versions by usage frequency
-   **Latest updated workspaces** displays your most recently updated workspaces.
-   **Oldest applied workspaces** sorts workspaces by the date of the current applied run.

## Custom filter conditions

The explorer's query builder allows you to execute queries with custom filter conditions against any of the supported [types](#types).

To use the query builder, select a type or use case from the explorer home page. Expand the **Modify conditions** section to show the filter conditions in use for the current query and to define new filter conditions.

![Explorer Query Builder](/img/docs/query-builder.png)

Each filter condition is represented by a row of inputs, each made up of a target field, operator, and value.

1.  Choose a target field from the first dropdown to select field that the explorer will run the query against. The options available will vary based on the target field's data type.

2.  Choose an operator from the second dropdown. The options available will vary based on the target field's data type.

3.  Provide a value in the third field to compare against the target field's value.

4.  Click **Run Query** to evaluate the filter conditions.

-> **Tip:** Inspect the filter conditions used by the various pre-canned [**Use Cases**](#use-cases) to learn how they are constructed.

You can create multiple filter conditions for a query. When you provide multiple conditions, the explorer evaluates them at query time with a logical AND. To add a new condition, use the **Add condition** button below the condition list. To remove a condition, use the trash bin button on the right hand side of the condition.

## Save a view

You can save explorer views to revisit a custom query or use case.

HCP Terraform and Terraform Enterprise do not save query results or query history.
Returning to them re-runs the query and shows current results only.

You can save the explorer’s view of your data by performing the following steps:

1.  Navigate to the **Explorer** page in the sidebar of your organization.
2.  Click on a tile in the **Types** or **Use cases** section.
3.  Define a query using the query building interface.
4.  By default, the explorer displays all available information, but you can adjust which columns you want your view to include.
5.  Open the **Actions** dropdown menu and select **Save view**, saving the last query you performed in the explorer.
6.  Specify a new, unique name for your saved view.
7.  Click **Save**.

When your explorer saves a view, it saves the last query it performed. If you change a query and do not rerun it, the explorer does not save those changes.

After you have saved a view of your data, you can access it from the explorer’s main page underneath the **Saved views** tab. Saved views keep track of the following attributes:

-   The name of the saved view.
-   The type of data you are querying, either module, workspace, provider, or Terraform versions.
-   The owner of the saved view.
-   When the saved view was last updated.

You can rename or delete a saved view from the **Saved views** tab by opening the ellipsis menu next to a view and selecting either **Rename** or **Delete**.

### Manage a saved view

Complete the following steps to update a saved view:

1.  Open the view in the explorer and make changes.
2.  Open the **Actions** dropdown menu and select **Save view.**

Complete the following steps to save a new view based on an existing saved view:

1.  Open a saved view in the explorer and make changes.
2.  Open the **Actions** dropdown menu and select **Save as**.
3.  Entering a name for this new saved view.
4.  Click **Save**.

Complete the following steps to delete a saved view:

1.  Open a saved view in the explorer.
2.  Choose  **Delete view** from the **Actions** drop-down menu.
3.  Click **Delete** when prompted to confirm that you want to permanently delete the view.

### Limitations

Running the Explorer may potentially increase the load on the Terraform Enterprise server, resulting in slowdowns or latency.
