content/vault/v1.19.x/content/api-docs/auth/azure.mdx, before:

---
layout: api
page_title: Azure - Auth Methods - HTTP API
description: |-
  This is the API documentation for the Vault Azure authentication
  method plugin.
---

# Azure auth method (API)

This is the API documentation for the Vault Azure auth method
plugin. To learn more about the usage and operation, see the
[Vault Azure method documentation](/vault/docs/auth/azure).

This documentation assumes the plugin method is mounted at the
`/auth/azure` path in Vault. Since it is possible to enable auth methods
at any location, please update your API calls accordingly.

## Configure

Configures the credentials required for the plugin to perform API calls
to Azure. These credentials will be used to query the metadata about the
virtual machine.

You can configure the auth engine with account credentials or plugin workload
identity federation (WIF).

| Method | Path                 |
| :----- | :------------------- |
| `POST` | `/auth/azure/config` |

### Parameters

- `tenant_id` `(string: <required>)` - The tenant id for the Azure Active Directory organization.
  This value can also be provided with the `AZURE_TENANT_ID` environment variable.
- `resource` `(string: <required>)` - The resource URL for the application registered in Azure Active Directory.
  The value is expected to match the audience (`aud` claim) of the [JWT](/vault/api-docs/auth/azure#jwt)
  provided to the login API. See the [resource](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/active-directory/managed-identities-azure-resources/how-to-use-vm-token#get-a-token-using-http)
  parameter for how the audience is set when requesting a JWT access token from the Azure Instance Metadata Service (IMDS) endpoint.
  This value can also be provided with the `AZURE_AD_RESOURCE` environment variable.
- `environment` `(string: 'AzurePublicCloud')` - The Azure cloud environment. Valid values: AzurePublicCloud, AzureUSGovernmentCloud, AzureChinaCloud, AzureGermanCloud.
  This value can also be provided with the `AZURE_ENVIRONMENT` environment variable.
- `client_id` `(string: '')` - The client id for credentials to query the Azure APIs. Currently read permissions to query compute resources are required.
  This value can also be provided with the `AZURE_CLIENT_ID` environment variable.
- `client_secret` `(string: '')` - The client secret for credentials to query the Azure APIs.
  This value can also be provided with the `AZURE_CLIENT_SECRET` environment variable.
  Mutually exclusive with `identity_token_audience`.
- `identity_token_audience` `(string: "")` - <EnterpriseAlert product="vault" inline /> The
  audience claim value for plugin identity tokens. Must match the allowed audiences configured
  for the target [Federated Identity Credential](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/entra/workload-id/workload-identity-federation-create-trust?pivots=identity-wif-apps-methods-azp#configure-a-federated-identity-credential-on-an-app).
  Mutually exclusive with `client_secret`.
- `identity_token_ttl` `(string/int: 3600)` - <EnterpriseAlert product="vault" inline /> The
  TTL of generated tokens. Defaults to 1 hour. Uses [duration format strings](/vault/docs/concepts/duration-format).
- `max_retries` `(int: 3)` - The maximum number of attempts a failed operation will be
  retried before producing an error.
- `max_retry_delay` `(string: '60s')` - The maximum delay, in seconds, allowed before retrying an operation.
- `retry_delay` `(string: '4s')` - The initial amount of delay, in seconds, to use before retrying an operation. Increases exponentially.

@include 'rotationfields.mdx'

### Sample payload

```json
{
  "tenant_id": "kd83...",
  "resource": "https://management.azure.com/",
  "client_id": "12ud...",
  "client_secret": "DUJDS3..."
}
```

### Sample request

```shell-session
$ curl \
    --header "X-Vault-Token: ..." \
    --request POST \
    --data @payload.json \
    https://127.0.0.1:8200/v1/auth/azure/config
```

# Read config

Returns the previously configured config, including credentials.

| Method | Path                 |
| :----- | :------------------- |
| `GET`  | `/auth/azure/config` |

### Sample request

```shell-session
$ curl \
    --header "X-Vault-Token: ..." \
    https://127.0.0.1:8200/v1/auth/azure/config
```

### Sample response

```json
{
  "data":{
    "tenant_id": "kd83...",
    "resource": "https://management.azure.com/",
    "client_id": "12ud...",
    "client_secret": "DUJDS3..."
  },
  ...
}

```

## Delete config

Deletes the previously configured Azure config and credentials.

| Method   | Path                 |
| :------- | :------------------- |
| `DELETE` | `/auth/azure/config` |

### Sample request

```shell-session
$ curl \
    --header "X-Vault-Token: ..." \
    --request DELETE \
    https://127.0.0.1:8200/v1/auth/azure/config
```

## Rotate root

This endpoint generates a new client secret for the root account defined in the config. The
value generated will only be known by Vault.

| Method | Path                 |
| :----- | :------------------- |
| `POST` | `/azure/rotate-root` |

### Parameters

There are no parameters to this operation.

### Sample request

```shell-session
$ curl \
  --header "X-Vault-Token: ..." \
  --request POST \
  https://127.0.0.1:8200/v1/auth/azure/rotate-root
```

## Create/Update role

Registers a role in the method. Role types have specific entities
that can perform login operations against this endpoint. Constraints specific
to the role type must be set on the role. These are applied to the authenticated
entities attempting to login.

| Method | Path                     |
| :----- | :----------------------- |
| `POST` | `/auth/azure/role/:name` |

### Parameters

- `name` `(string: <required>)` - Name of the role.
- `bound_service_principal_ids` `(array: [])` - The list of Service Principal IDs
  that login is restricted to.
- `bound_group_ids` `(array: [])` - The list of group ids that login is restricted
  to.
- `bound_locations` `(array: [])` - The list of locations that login is restricted to.
- `bound_subscription_ids` `(array: [])` - The list of subscription IDs that login
  is restricted to.
- `bound_resource_groups` `(array: [])` - The list of resource groups that
  login is restricted to.
- `bound_scale_sets` `(array: [])` - The list of scale set names that the
  login is restricted to.

@include 'tokenfields.mdx'

### Sample payload

```json
{
  "token_policies": ["default", "dev", "prod"],
  "max_ttl": 1800000,
  "max_jwt_exp": 10000,
  "bound_resource_groups": ["vault-dev", "vault-staging", "vault-prod"]
}
```

### Sample request

```shell-session
$ curl \
    --header "X-Vault-Token: ..." \
    --request POST \
    --data @payload.json \
    https://127.0.0.1:8200/v1/auth/azure/role/dev-role
```

## Read role

Returns the previously registered role configuration.

| Method | Path                     |
| :----- | :----------------------- |
| `GET`  | `/auth/azure/role/:name` |

### Parameters

- `name` `(string: <required>)` - Name of the role.

### Sample request

```shell-session
$ curl \
    --header "X-Vault-Token: ..." \
    https://127.0.0.1:8200/v1/auth/azure/role/dev-role
```

### Sample response

```json
{
  "data":{
    "token_policies": [
        "default",
        "dev",
        "prod"
    ],
    "max_ttl": 1800000,
    "max_jwt_exp": 10000,
    "bound_resource_groups": [
        "vault-dev",
        "vault-staging",
        "vault-prod"
    ]
  },
  ...
}

```

## List roles

Lists all the roles that are registered with the plugin.

| Method | Path               |
| :----- | :----------------- |
| `LIST` | `/auth/azure/role` |

### Sample request

```shell-session
$ curl \
    --header "X-Vault-Token: ..." \
    --request LIST \
    https://127.0.0.1:8200/v1/auth/azure/role
```

### Sample response

```json
{
  "data": {
    "keys": [
      "dev-role",
      "prod-role"
    ]
  },
  ...
}
```

## Delete role

Deletes the previously registered role.

| Method   | Path                     |
| :------- | :----------------------- |
| `DELETE` | `/auth/azure/role/:name` |

### Parameters

- `name` `(string: <required>)` - Name of the role.

### Sample request

```shell-session
$ curl \
    --header "X-Vault-Token: ..." \
    --request DELETE \
    https://127.0.0.1:8200/v1/auth/azure/role/dev-role
```

## Login

Fetch a token. This endpoint takes a signed JSON Web Token (JWT) and
a role name for some entity. It verifies the JWT signature to authenticate that
entity and then authorizes the entity for the given role.

| Method | Path                |
| :----- | :------------------ |
| `POST` | `/auth/azure/login` |

### Sample payload

- `role` `(string: <required>)` - Name of the role against which the login is being
  attempted.
- `jwt` `(string: <required>)` - Signed [JSON Web Token](https://tools.ietf.org/html/rfc7519) (JWT)
  from Azure MSI. See [Azure documentation](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/active-directory/managed-identities-azure-resources/how-to-use-vm-token)
  for details on how to acquire a JWT access token through instance metadata.
- `subscription_id` `(string: <required>)` - The subscription ID for the machine that
  generated the MSI token. This information can be obtained through instance
  metadata.
- `resource_group_name` `(string: <required>)` - The resource group for the machine that
  generated the MSI token. This information can be obtained through instance
  metadata.
- `vm_name` `(string: "")` - The virtual machine name for the machine that
  generated the MSI token. This information can be obtained through instance
  metadata. If `vmss_name` is provided, this value is ignored.
- `vmss_name` `(string: "")` - The virtual machine scale set name for the machine
  that generated the MSI token. This information can be obtained through instance
  metadata.
- `resource_id` `(string: "")` - The fully qualified ID of the Azure resource that
  generated the MSI token, including the resource name and resource type. Use
  the format /subscriptions/{guid}/resourceGroups/{resource-group-name}/{resource-provider-namespace}/{resource-type}/{resource-name}.
  If `vm_name` or `vmss_name` is provided, this value is ignored.

### Sample payload

```json
{
  "role": "dev-role",
  "jwt": "eyJhbGciOiJIUzI1NiIsInR5cCI6IkpXVCJ9..."
}
```

### Sample request

```shell-session
$ curl \
    --request POST \
    --data @payload.json \
    https://127.0.0.1:8200/v1/auth/azure/login
```

### Sample response

```json
{
    "auth":{
        "client_token":"f33f8c72-924e-11f8-cb43-ac59d697597c",
        "accessor":"0e9e354a-520f-df04-6867-ee81cae3d42d",
        "token_policies":[
            "default",
            "dev",
            "prod"
        ],
        "lease_duration":2764800,
        "renewable":true
    },
    ...
}
```

Commit message:

Update xms fields table, API required fields on login

content/vault/v1.19.x/content/api-docs/auth/azure.mdx, after:

---
layout: api
page_title: Azure - Auth Methods - HTTP API
description: |-
  This is the API documentation for the Vault Azure authentication
  method plugin.
---

# Azure auth method (API)

This is the API documentation for the Vault Azure auth method
plugin. To learn more about the usage and operation, see the
[Vault Azure method documentation](/vault/docs/auth/azure).

This documentation assumes the plugin method is mounted at the
`/auth/azure` path in Vault. Since it is possible to enable auth methods
at any location, please update your API calls accordingly.

## Configure

Configures the credentials required for the plugin to perform API calls
to Azure. These credentials will be used to query the metadata about the
virtual machine.

You can configure the auth engine with account credentials or plugin workload
identity federation (WIF).

| Method | Path                 |
| :----- | :------------------- |
| `POST` | `/auth/azure/config` |

### Parameters

- `tenant_id` `(string: <required>)` - The tenant id for the Azure Active Directory organization.
  This value can also be provided with the `AZURE_TENANT_ID` environment variable.
- `resource` `(string: <required>)` - The resource URL for the application registered in Azure Active Directory.
  The value is expected to match the audience (`aud` claim) of the [JWT](/vault/api-docs/auth/azure#jwt)
  provided to the login API. See the [resource](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/active-directory/managed-identities-azure-resources/how-to-use-vm-token#get-a-token-using-http)
  parameter for how the audience is set when requesting a JWT access token from the Azure Instance Metadata Service (IMDS) endpoint.
  This value can also be provided with the `AZURE_AD_RESOURCE` environment variable.
- `environment` `(string: 'AzurePublicCloud')` - The Azure cloud environment. Valid values: AzurePublicCloud, AzureUSGovernmentCloud, AzureChinaCloud, AzureGermanCloud.
  This value can also be provided with the `AZURE_ENVIRONMENT` environment variable.
- `client_id` `(string: '')` - The client id for credentials to query the Azure APIs. Currently read permissions to query compute resources are required.
  This value can also be provided with the `AZURE_CLIENT_ID` environment variable.
- `client_secret` `(string: '')` - The client secret for credentials to query the Azure APIs.
  This value can also be provided with the `AZURE_CLIENT_SECRET` environment variable.
  Mutually exclusive with `identity_token_audience`.
- `identity_token_audience` `(string: "")` - <EnterpriseAlert product="vault" inline /> The
  audience claim value for plugin identity tokens. Must match the allowed audiences configured
  for the target [Federated Identity Credential](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/entra/workload-id/workload-identity-federation-create-trust?pivots=identity-wif-apps-methods-azp#configure-a-federated-identity-credential-on-an-app).
  Mutually exclusive with `client_secret`.
- `identity_token_ttl` `(string/int: 3600)` - <EnterpriseAlert product="vault" inline /> The
  TTL of generated tokens. Defaults to 1 hour. Uses [duration format strings](/vault/docs/concepts/duration-format).
- `max_retries` `(int: 3)` - The maximum number of attempts a failed operation will be
  retried before producing an error.
- `max_retry_delay` `(string: '60s')` - The maximum delay, in seconds, allowed before retrying an operation.
- `retry_delay` `(string: '4s')` - The initial amount of delay, in seconds, to use before retrying an operation. Increases exponentially.

@include 'rotationfields.mdx'

### Sample payload

```json
{
  "tenant_id": "kd83...",
  "resource": "https://management.azure.com/",
  "client_id": "12ud...",
  "client_secret": "DUJDS3..."
}
```

### Sample request

```shell-session
$ curl \
    --header "X-Vault-Token: ..." \
    --request POST \
    --data @payload.json \
    https://127.0.0.1:8200/v1/auth/azure/config
```

# Read config

Returns the previously configured config, including credentials.

| Method | Path                 |
| :----- | :------------------- |
| `GET`  | `/auth/azure/config` |

### Sample request

```shell-session
$ curl \
    --header "X-Vault-Token: ..." \
    https://127.0.0.1:8200/v1/auth/azure/config
```

### Sample response

```json
{
  "data":{
    "tenant_id": "kd83...",
    "resource": "https://management.azure.com/",
    "client_id": "12ud...",
    "client_secret": "DUJDS3..."
  },
  ...
}

```

## Delete config

Deletes the previously configured Azure config and credentials.

| Method   | Path                 |
| :------- | :------------------- |
| `DELETE` | `/auth/azure/config` |

### Sample request

```shell-session
$ curl \
    --header "X-Vault-Token: ..." \
    --request DELETE \
    https://127.0.0.1:8200/v1/auth/azure/config
```

## Rotate root

This endpoint generates a new client secret for the root account defined in the config. The
value generated will only be known by Vault.

| Method | Path                 |
| :----- | :------------------- |
| `POST` | `/azure/rotate-root` |

### Parameters

There are no parameters to this operation.

### Sample request

```shell-session
$ curl \
  --header "X-Vault-Token: ..." \
  --request POST \
  https://127.0.0.1:8200/v1/auth/azure/rotate-root
```

## Create/Update role

Registers a role in the method. Role types have specific entities
that can perform login operations against this endpoint. Constraints specific
to the role type must be set on the role. These are applied to the authenticated
entities attempting to login.

| Method | Path                     |
| :----- | :----------------------- |
| `POST` | `/auth/azure/role/:name` |

### Parameters

- `name` `(string: <required>)` - Name of the role.
- `bound_service_principal_ids` `(array: [])` - The list of Service Principal IDs
  that login is restricted to.
- `bound_group_ids` `(array: [])` - The list of group ids that login is restricted
  to.
- `bound_locations` `(array: [])` - The list of locations that login is restricted to.
- `bound_subscription_ids` `(array: [])` - The list of subscription IDs that login
  is restricted to.
- `bound_resource_groups` `(array: [])` - The list of resource groups that
  login is restricted to.
- `bound_scale_sets` `(array: [])` - The list of scale set names that the
  login is restricted to.

@include 'tokenfields.mdx'

### Sample payload

```json
{
  "token_policies": ["default", "dev", "prod"],
  "max_ttl": 1800000,
  "max_jwt_exp": 10000,
  "bound_resource_groups": ["vault-dev", "vault-staging", "vault-prod"]
}
```

### Sample request

```shell-session
$ curl \
    --header "X-Vault-Token: ..." \
    --request POST \
    --data @payload.json \
    https://127.0.0.1:8200/v1/auth/azure/role/dev-role
```

## Read role

Returns the previously registered role configuration.

| Method | Path                     |
| :----- | :----------------------- |
| `GET`  | `/auth/azure/role/:name` |

### Parameters

- `name` `(string: <required>)` - Name of the role.

### Sample request

```shell-session
$ curl \
    --header "X-Vault-Token: ..." \
    https://127.0.0.1:8200/v1/auth/azure/role/dev-role
```

### Sample response

```json
{
  "data":{
    "token_policies": [
        "default",
        "dev",
        "prod"
    ],
    "max_ttl": 1800000,
    "max_jwt_exp": 10000,
    "bound_resource_groups": [
        "vault-dev",
        "vault-staging",
        "vault-prod"
    ]
  },
  ...
}

```

## List roles

Lists all the roles that are registered with the plugin.

| Method | Path               |
| :----- | :----------------- |
| `LIST` | `/auth/azure/role` |

### Sample request

```shell-session
$ curl \
    --header "X-Vault-Token: ..." \
    --request LIST \
    https://127.0.0.1:8200/v1/auth/azure/role
```

### Sample response

```json
{
  "data": {
    "keys": [
      "dev-role",
      "prod-role"
    ]
  },
  ...
}
```

## Delete role

Deletes the previously registered role.

| Method   | Path                     |
| :------- | :----------------------- |
| `DELETE` | `/auth/azure/role/:name` |

### Parameters

- `name` `(string: <required>)` - Name of the role.

### Sample request

```shell-session
$ curl \
    --header "X-Vault-Token: ..." \
    --request DELETE \
    https://127.0.0.1:8200/v1/auth/azure/role/dev-role
```

## Login

Fetch a token. This endpoint takes a signed JSON Web Token (JWT) and
a role name for some entity. It verifies the JWT signature to authenticate that
entity and then authorizes the entity for the given role.

The `role` and `jwt` parameters are required. When using
`bound_service_principal_ids` and `bound_group_ids` in the token roles, all the
information is required in the JWT (except for `vm_name`, `vmss_name`, `resource_id`). When
using other `bound_*` parameters, calls to Azure APIs will be made and
`subscription_id`, `resource_group_name`, and `vm_name`/`vmss_name` are all required
and can be obtained through instance metadata.

| Method | Path                |
| :----- | :------------------ |
| `POST` | `/auth/azure/login` |

### Sample payload

- `role` `(string: <required>)` - Name of the role against which the login is being
  attempted.
- `jwt` `(string: <required>)` - Signed [JSON Web Token](https://tools.ietf.org/html/rfc7519) (JWT)
  from Azure MSI. See [Azure documentation](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/active-directory/managed-identities-azure-resources/how-to-use-vm-token)
  for details on how to acquire a JWT access token through instance metadata.
- `subscription_id` `(string: "")` - The subscription ID for the machine that
  generated the MSI token. This information can be obtained through instance
  metadata.
- `resource_group_name` `(string: "")` - The resource group for the machine that
  generated the MSI token. This information can be obtained through instance
  metadata.
- `vm_name` `(string: "")` - The virtual machine name for the machine that
  generated the MSI token. This information can be obtained through instance
  metadata. If `vmss_name` is provided, this value is ignored.
- `vmss_name` `(string: "")` - The virtual machine scale set name for the machine
  that generated the MSI token. This information can be obtained through instance
  metadata.
- `resource_id` `(string: "")` - The fully qualified ID of the Azure resource that
  generated the MSI token, including the resource name and resource type. Use
  the format /subscriptions/{guid}/resourceGroups/{resource-group-name}/{resource-provider-namespace}/{resource-type}/{resource-name}.
  If `vm_name` or `vmss_name` is provided, this value is ignored.

### Sample payload

```json
{
  "role": "dev-role",
  "jwt": "eyJhbGciOiJIUzI1NiIsInR5cCI6IkpXVCJ9..."
}
```

### Sample request

```shell-session
$ curl \
    --request POST \
    --data @payload.json \
    https://127.0.0.1:8200/v1/auth/azure/login
```

### Sample response

```json
{
    "auth":{
        "client_token":"f33f8c72-924e-11f8-cb43-ac59d697597c",
        "accessor":"0e9e354a-520f-df04-6867-ee81cae3d42d",
        "token_policies":[
            "default",
            "dev",
            "prod"
        ],
        "lease_duration":2764800,
        "renewable":true
    },
    ...
}
```
