content/nomad/v1.11.x/content/plugins/author/secret-provider.mdx, before:

---
layout: docs
page_title: Create a secret provider plugin
description: |-
  Use Nomad's secret provider plugins specification to create a secret provider plugin so that you can use secrets in your tasks from any secrets store.
---

# Create a secret provider plugin

This page describes the plugin specification for
[custom secret providers][custom-providers], with examples, so you can write
your own plugin to utilize secrets from any secrets store.

The full [specification](#specification) follows the examples,
and is followed by a list of [general considerations](#considerations).

Follow this workflow to create and use a custom secret provider:

1. Develop the plugin code based on the [specification](#specification).
1. Compile your plugin into an executable binary.
1. Place the binary in the
   [`client.common_plugin_dir/secrets/`][common_plugin_dir] directory on each
   Nomad client node.
1. Configure the `secret` block in your job specification.

## Example

We wrote the example in Go, but the specification is lean enough to be
readily fulfilled in any language. The example code is not meant to be inclusive of all error handling.

In this example code, the `aws` secret provider plugin fetches a secret from AWS
Secret Manager. Refer to the external [AWS Secrets Manager User
Guide](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/secretsmanager/latest/userguide/intro.html)
for details on AWS Secrets Manager and [how to fetch secrets in various languages](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/secretsmanager/latest/userguide/retrieving-secrets.html).

### Plugin code

<CodeBlockConfig heading="aws.go" lineNumbers="true">

```golang
package main

import (
	"context"
	"fmt"
	"os"

	"github.com/aws/aws-sdk-go-v2/config"
	"github.com/aws/aws-sdk-go-v2/service/secretsmanager"
	"github.com/aws/aws-sdk-go/aws"
)

const generalUsage = "You must run with either 'fingerprint' or 'fetch'. \nYou must pass 'fetch' to the path of the secret."

func returnErr(err string) {
	fmt.Printf(`{"error": "%s"}`, err)
	os.Exit(1)
}

func main() {
	if len(os.Args) < 2 {
		returnErr("internal error not enough args")
	}

	switch os.Args[1] {
	case "fingerprint":
		fingerprint()
	case "fetch":
		// fetch should be called with the correct secret path
		if len(os.Args) < 3 {
			returnErr("internal error no path specified")
		}
		fetch(os.Args[2])
	default:
		returnErr("internal error incorrect function")
	}
}

func fingerprint() {
	fmt.Println(`{"type": "secrets", "version": "0.0.1"}`)
}

// resource: https://docs.aws.amazon.com/secretsmanager/latest/userguide/retrieving-secrets-go-sdk.html
func fetch(secretName string) {
	ctx := context.Background()

	config, err := config.LoadDefaultConfig(ctx, config.WithRegion(os.Getenv("AWS_REGION")))
	if err != nil {
		returnErr("error loading default aws config")
	}

	// Create Secrets Manager client
	svc := secretsmanager.NewFromConfig(config)

	input := &secretsmanager.GetSecretValueInput{
		SecretId:     aws.String(secretName),
		VersionStage: aws.String("AWSCURRENT"),
	}

	result, err := svc.GetSecretValue(ctx, input)
	if err != nil {
		returnErr(err.Error())
	}

	// Decrypts secret using the associated KMS key.
	var secretString string = *result.SecretString

	fmt.Printf(`{"result": "%s"}`, secretString)
}
```

</CodeBlockConfig>

### Task configuration

Configure your task to fetch the secret with your customer `aws` secret
provider. Make sure the `provider` value matches the name of your plugin
executable.

In this example job specification, the task uses your custom `aws`
secret provider to fetch an AWS secret named `my-aws-secret` from the AWS
Secrets Manager in region `us-east-2`.

```hcl
job "docs" {
  group "example" {
    task "server" {
      secret "my_secret" {
        provider = "aws"
        path     = "my-aws-secret"
        env {
          AWS_REGION = "us-east-2"
        }
      }
    }
  }
}
```

## Specification

Nomad registers a  secret provider plugin if the plugin meets all of the
following criteria:

- Is an executable file, such as a script or binary
- Is located in the [`client.common_plugin_dir/secrets/`][common_plugin_dir]
  directory on Nomad client nodes
- Responds appropriately to a `fingerprint` call

### Operations

A secret provider plugin must fulfill all of the following operations:

- [fingerprint](#fingerprint)
- [fetch](#fetch)

Nomad passes the operation as the first positional argument to the plugin and as
an environment variable prefixed with `CPI_`.

#### fingerprint

<blockquote style={{borderLeft: "solid 1px #00ca8e"}}>

Nomad calls `fingerprint` to discover valid plugins when the client agent
starts or is reloaded with a SIGHUP. The version it returns is used to register
the plugin on the Nomad node.

**CLI arguments:** `$1=fingerprint`

**Environment variables:**

```
CPI_OPERATION=fingerprint
```

**Expected stdout:**

```
{"type": "secrets", "version": "0.0.1"}
```

**Requirements:**

- Must complete within 10 seconds, or Nomad kills it. It should be much
  faster, as no actual work should be done.
- "type" registers this as a secret provider plugin.
- "version" value must be valid per the [hashicorp/go-version][go-version]
  golang package.

</blockquote>

#### fetch

<blockquote style={{borderLeft: "solid 1px #00ca8e"}}>

Nomad calls `fetch` when a Nomad job includes a secret block with a provider
registered as a plugin. When calling fetch, Nomad includes the secret path as
the second CLI argument. If the `env{}` block was specified, any key/values are
supplied as environment variables to the plugin process.

**CLI Arguments:** `$1=fetch $2=path`

**Environment variables:**

```
CPI_OPERATION=fetch
```

**Expected stdout:**

```
{"result": {"key1": "value1", "key2": "value2"}}
```

**Expected stdout on error:**

```
{"result": {}, "error": "error message"}
```

Returning an error message is optional. Nomad returns the error message in any
error returned to the user.

**Requirements:**

- Must complete within 10 seconds, or Nomad kills it.
- Must return secret contents as a key/value object, even if the secret
  was not originally in key/value format.

</blockquote>

## Considerations

### Execution

- The plugin is executed as the same user as the Nomad agent (likely root).

[custom-providers]: /nomad/docs/job-specification/secret#custom-providers
[go-version]: https://pkg.go.dev/github.com/hashicorp/go-version#pkg-constants
[common_plugin_dir]: /nomad/docs/configuration/client#common_plugin_dir

Commit message:

fix typo and add nomad variables

content/nomad/v1.11.x/content/plugins/author/secret-provider.mdx, after:

---
layout: docs
page_title: Create a secret provider plugin
description: |-
  Use Nomad's secret provider plugins specification to create a secret provider plugin so that you can use secrets in your tasks from any secrets store.
---

# Create a secret provider plugin

This page describes the plugin specification for
[custom secret providers][custom-providers], with examples, so you can write
your own plugin to utilize secrets from any secrets store.

The full [specification](#specification) follows the examples,
and is followed by a list of [general considerations](#considerations).

Follow this workflow to create and use a custom secret provider:

1. Develop the plugin code based on the [specification](#specification).
1. Compile your plugin into an executable binary.
1. Place the binary in the
   [`client.common_plugin_dir/secrets/`][common_plugin_dir] directory on each
   Nomad client node.
1. Configure the `secret` block in your job specification.

## Example

We wrote the example in Go, but the specification is lean enough to be
readily fulfilled in any language. The example code is not meant to be inclusive of all error handling.

In this example code, the `aws` secret provider plugin fetches a secret from AWS
Secret Manager. Refer to the external [AWS Secrets Manager User
Guide](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/secretsmanager/latest/userguide/intro.html)
for details on AWS Secrets Manager and [how to fetch secrets in various languages](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/secretsmanager/latest/userguide/retrieving-secrets.html).

### Plugin code

<CodeBlockConfig heading="aws.go" lineNumbers="true">

```golang
package main

import (
	"context"
	"fmt"
	"os"

	"github.com/aws/aws-sdk-go-v2/config"
	"github.com/aws/aws-sdk-go-v2/service/secretsmanager"
	"github.com/aws/aws-sdk-go/aws"
)

const generalUsage = "You must run with either 'fingerprint' or 'fetch'. \nYou must pass 'fetch' to the path of the secret."

func returnErr(err string) {
	fmt.Printf(`{"error": "%s"}`, err)
	os.Exit(1)
}

func main() {
	if len(os.Args) < 2 {
		returnErr("internal error not enough args")
	}

	switch os.Args[1] {
	case "fingerprint":
		fingerprint()
	case "fetch":
		// fetch should be called with the correct secret path
		if len(os.Args) < 3 {
			returnErr("internal error no path specified")
		}
		fetch(os.Args[2])
	default:
		returnErr("internal error incorrect function")
	}
}

func fingerprint() {
	fmt.Println(`{"type": "secrets", "version": "0.0.1"}`)
}

// resource: https://docs.aws.amazon.com/secretsmanager/latest/userguide/retrieving-secrets-go-sdk.html
func fetch(secretName string) {
	ctx := context.Background()

	config, err := config.LoadDefaultConfig(ctx, config.WithRegion(os.Getenv("AWS_REGION")))
	if err != nil {
		returnErr("error loading default aws config")
	}

	// Create Secrets Manager client
	svc := secretsmanager.NewFromConfig(config)

	input := &secretsmanager.GetSecretValueInput{
		SecretId:     aws.String(secretName),
		VersionStage: aws.String("AWSCURRENT"),
	}

	result, err := svc.GetSecretValue(ctx, input)
	if err != nil {
		returnErr(err.Error())
	}

	// Decrypts secret using the associated KMS key.
	var secretString string = *result.SecretString

	fmt.Printf(`{"result": "%s"}`, secretString)
}
```

</CodeBlockConfig>

### Task configuration

Configure your task to fetch the secret with your customer `aws` secret
provider. Make sure the `provider` value matches the name of your plugin
executable.

In this example job specification, the task uses your custom `aws`
secret provider to fetch an AWS secret named `my-aws-secret` from the AWS
Secrets Manager in region `us-east-2`.

```hcl
job "docs" {
  group "example" {
    task "server" {
      secret "my_secret" {
        provider = "aws"
        path     = "my-aws-secret"
        env {
          AWS_REGION = "us-east-2"
        }
      }
    }
  }
}
```

## Specification

Nomad registers a  secret provider plugin if the plugin meets all of the
following criteria:

- Is an executable file, such as a script or binary
- Is located in the [`client.common_plugin_dir/secrets/`][common_plugin_dir]
  directory on Nomad client nodes
- Responds appropriately to a `fingerprint` call

### Operations

A secret provider plugin must fulfill all of the following operations:

- [fingerprint](#fingerprint)
- [fetch](#fetch)

Nomad passes the operation as the first positional argument to the plugin and as
an environment variable prefixed with `CPI_`.

#### fingerprint

<blockquote style={{borderLeft: "solid 1px #00ca8e"}}>

Nomad calls `fingerprint` to discover valid plugins when the client agent
starts or is reloaded with a SIGHUP. The version it returns is used to register
the plugin on the Nomad node.

**CLI arguments:** `$1=fingerprint`

**Environment variables:**

```
CPI_OPERATION=fingerprint
```

**Expected stdout:**

```
{"type": "secrets", "version": "0.0.1"}
```

**Requirements:**

- Must complete within 10 seconds, or Nomad kills it. It should be much
  faster, as no actual work should be done.
- "type" registers this as a secret provider plugin.
- "version" value must be valid per the [hashicorp/go-version][go-version]
  golang package.

</blockquote>

#### fetch

<blockquote style={{borderLeft: "solid 1px #00ca8e"}}>

Nomad calls `fetch` when a Nomad job includes a secret block with a provider
registered as a plugin. When calling fetch, Nomad includes the secret path as
the second CLI argument. If the `env{}` block was specified, any key/values are
supplied as environment variables to the plugin process. Nomad automatically
provides the `NOMAD_JOB_ID` and `NOMAD_NAMESPACE` environment variables to plugins.

**CLI Arguments:** `$1=fetch $2=path`

**Environment variables:**

```
CPI_OPERATION=fetch
```

**Expected stdout:**

```
{"result": {"key1": "value1", "key2": "value2"}}
```

**Expected stdout on error:**

```
{"result": {}, "error": "error message"}
```

Returning an error message is optional. Nomad returns the error message in any
error returned to the user.

**Requirements:**

- Must complete within 10 seconds, or Nomad kills it.
- Must return secret contents as a key/value object, even if the secret
  was not originally in key/value format.

</blockquote>

## Considerations

### Execution

- The plugin is executed as the same user as the Nomad agent (likely root).

[custom-providers]: /nomad/docs/job-specification/secret#custom-providers
[go-version]: https://pkg.go.dev/github.com/hashicorp/go-version#pkg-constants
[common_plugin_dir]: /nomad/docs/configuration/client#common_plugin_dir
